you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
I know right I know
another live stream another mentorship
goodness
hey don't folks, I hope you're doing well
give me a second here I apologize for being slightly late
the OBS
streaming service thing I hear I use wasn't cooperating with me so I couldn't find
the settings to get my chart to show up so that's when I make sure
it's showing before I start doing any more jaw-donning
it looks like
it looks like we're relying I'm not sure
give me a second one more time
I apologize
I just want to see if I can
hear myself in my headphones
I
I
I
I
I
I audio check what
I think I can take that
three seconds away that's pretty good so I have it set to
So when I'm showing my 15-second chart, we won't go down to a 15-second chart today,
but we'll go to one minute.
All right, so let me explain to you why I'm even doing an elementary shift here.
As you know, I've been trying to get my kids to want to do this pretty much since they were
born, trying to mold them and get them into the mindset of not thinking for the purposes
of procuring an income from someone else's hand, relying on them to say when they can
earn money, when they can go to work, when they shouldn't, when they can have time off.
I don't like to cultivate an employee mentality because I don't have one.
So my son Caleb recently had an interest in making another attempt at doing this.
I know a lot of you always ask you how my kid's doing, how they're doing in their learning and whatnot.
First of all, I make them work and it's work hardening.
It will make you want to leave it if you're forced to do it.
If you get money from daddy, if you get a lifestyle given to you, it kind of makes you lazy and become very
lots of basically what we just don't really have any pursuit in you.
So that method I've used has hopefully done its work in the venom of making him want to leave the rat race.
No one did.
I'm not just going to dull money out to him.
His interest is again, peaked and wants to make a good attempt at it.
So I get a lot of questions about if you're teaching your kids, how do you teach your kids?
What is it that you do differently if you do anything differently?
And I honestly, I do things slightly differently because they're my kids.
You're not entitled to anything from me.
I'm not out with you giving me anything.
I'm not expected to be your best friend or to be your guide.
As much as I seem like I am in the videos, it's because I'm talking to my kids.
And that's why you have this connection with me because you hear the sincerity and what it is I'm teaching because I care about them receiving it from me.
So it's like an archive of me teaching, instructing, encouraging my children.
So when I'm talking with a sense of sincerity and empathy, it's genuine because I have them in my mind.
Now invariably sometimes I get a student that's outside my family tree and they'll contact me and they'll say,
hey, look, I really appreciate if you could do this, this, that.
And I would touch on those types of those types of rather.
Or one of my kids will say, Dad, how do you deal with a situation like this or what if the market does that?
Or how do you know when not to do something?
Or when should you really push it aggressively?
I'm going to talk a little bit about that, not so much today.
But I want to give like a baseline on where you should be at when you first sit down and start learning how to do this.
I'll push buttons in front of you.
I'll talk about where the market should go.
I'll talk about what PD array isn't so important to me at the time and why.
And the ones that I think are important.
So that way it kind of like filters out.
And because I plan on doing this Monday through Friday,
it will be a exercise for you.
Now, if you're already profitable, if you're already profitable, whether you use in my concepts or a derivative of them,
or you're doing something entirely different, it's probably better that you don't watch the live stream.
Just do what you normally do because I'm probably going to distract you.
Or I'll be a perfect excuse for you.
If you take a losing trade, you'll say, I see T calls me to lose money and you won't take responsibility and you need to be responsible.
The things I'm going to touch on is obviously where your mind should be every day sitting down in front of the charts.
You have to have some reason to be in the charts dealing it.
So that's the reason why I started the stream at around eight o'clock.
And I was like seven minutes late.
You're not mind flirting.
So I can punch in late if I want and I can go through them really.
So I want to talk a little bit about that ahead of eight thirty.
We have a heavy news driver, the ISM PMI number at ten o'clock.
I'll be with you until probably the quarter after ten.
Okay, but this mentorship, at least the first lecture here, is probably going to be a little annoying for some of you that just want to get out here and start pushing buttons.
But I promise you, if you don't want to sit through this live, come back to it when you have time to do it.
But before you watch tomorrow's live stream.
Okay, because otherwise you'll miss the whole importance of what it is that you should be doing before you sit down whether you're watching my live stream, someone else's live stream, or you're doing your own model, you're intrigued.
Okay, because it's very, very important that you have a real reason of why you're doing it.
Some of you are here just want to see me do something and it's not paying out.
So if you can go on social media and get some clips and likes and some interactions because you need to get your grocery bill paid.
And that's fine. That's cool.
But I'm not here to do those types of things. I'm not here to brag. I'm not here to post.
And yes, I'm going to win the Robbins Cups to stop sending me emails.
Okay, I got plenty of time for that. Don't worry about it. It's in the bag.
Trust me on that. Okay, I told you all, I would give you a drama.
I'll give you a tragedy. I'd give you a tear jerker.
But at the end of the year, it's my name at the top of that list. Okay, so just just just relax.
Keep making your videos because you look stupid.
Exposed ICT failed Robbins Cup.
It's going to make me even better.
But anyway, our focus is going to be primarily on the NASDAQ today.
But in this mentorship, I will go back to talking about Forex because I know a lot of you are stuck in that asset class.
Okay, even though I'm not interested in pushing any orders through that market anymore.
I will cover some of the things that are salient to that individual asset class when it is appropriate,
but it's not appropriate right now.
Because right now I want you to think about what it is that you should be doing before you are trying to trade.
Before you're trying to trade with your funded accounts or trying to pass combines or whatnot.
Full disclosure, I talked to Caleb and I asked him with his intentions where he wants to do what he's willing to do.
He wants to share and document his progress.
So he'll be doing a YouTube channel.
So when I teach, I'm talking, he's not with me right now, but he's listening and watching it live like you are.
So the things I'm talking about in this is going to be my suggestion to you.
Maybe you've watched some of my videos, maybe you've watched a lot of my videos and you just don't know what to do or where to begin or what to do right now.
What do I do right now? Because it's very daunting seeing how many videos I have and all these different concepts and all these different things, these moving parts.
It's very intimidating and I get it, but it's meant to be a compendium, meaning it's like it's my entire encyclopedia of what I'm willing to get to the public.
So you can go in, you can build your own model.
So I'm going to show my son how he should do it correctly, this time where it's step by step, that's going to be explaining it live so that there's no hindsight stuff.
Not that it was ever hindsight when I was teaching him.
He would watch me push the button right in front of him.
He would see me explain, I think it's going to go here.
This is where it's going to go next.
I don't want to see it do this.
I don't want to see it do that.
This is real mentorship.
We're not going to be doing any market replay.
We're going to talk about theory and say, now, let me push the market forward and watch what happens when you had the benefit of already knowing what it's going to do.
That is absolutely not, that's not mentorship.
That is absolutely not teaching anybody anything.
And it certainly doesn't inspire trust in the person that you're learning from because they have the added benefit of knowing what has already happened.
So seeing live price action watching data tick without the benefit of knowing what it's going to do is exactly what you as a trader are going to have to encounter.
Every single time you sit in front of the charts, you don't know what's going to happen.
And right now is a wonderful learning experience because the climate is so statically charged.
Everything that's going on in the Middle East right now, they're going to have reverberations throughout the entire market globally.
And probably in your neck of the woods where you live.
So it increases the level of responsibility on your part as someone that wants to engage in these markets because they're very risky.
And now add to it the increased level and amplitude of uncertainty where anything can happen.
You know, a bomb drops or a series of bombs drop in an unexpected location and then boom, everything starts changing rapidly.
And that fear and that rush will be injected into the marketplace.
And they will use they being the people that are in charge of price action.
It's not the buying and selling pressure that moves price and you'll hear a lot about that as I go.
And there's something you don't like that.
I know some of you don't believe in an algorithm.
I know you believe that buyers and sellers push price and that's fine.
I'll leave you to that myth.
You want to believe in fairy tales.
That's your business.
I'm not going to try to wake you up from your dream sleep type.
Price will do what it's going to do because it's coded to do it based on time.
Okay.
And time is essential.
It's the first hallmark to when and why a market should produce a displacement, a run, whether it be impulsive, whether it be retracement, whether it be anything.
It's always going to be delivered on the basis of time.
It's going to move at a specific time or a period of time within 20 minutes.
That's a macro.
And we're going to talk about those things because I want to simplify it for my son.
You all are getting that benefit of seeing it, hearing it and being explained to you as if it were you being Caleb.
I'm not hiding anything.
I've just sent him a text before our starter said to stop texting me.
I'm doing it live right now.
Don't talk to me in a text because you're not distracting.
Okay.
So there's no secret texting going on.
There's no conversation behind the scenes.
Everything you see and experience while I'm doing these live streams is exactly what he's digesting the same way.
And the things that I'm going to encourage him to do, my suggestion is to try it for yourself.
And you're going to see everything that I taught is absolutely not complicated.
The complication comes from people that want to take my stuff.
They want to water it down to a 123 ABC pattern so they can go out to Amazon and write a book.
There's dozens of books about me now.
And I'm quite certain.
All of them are wrong, but it's a cash grab because my name is big right now.
It won't be forever.
And somebody else will become something interesting and that'll be the new bus thing.
But right now.
The problem with the community that has any interest in me is either they want to do the gotcha.
About me because it gives them grocery money or.
They want to learn from me and then say they don't learn from me, but they talk with my binocular.
They use all my terms.
They trade just like me, but they say they don't and they do mentorships.
So.
If you're one of those individuals, I'm going to help you too, not because I want to, but because it's going to be a default.
It's it's going to be a default response to you being here because you're going to learn how to finally do it.
Instead of pretending instead of talking about and teaching to market replay.
Okay.
I asked my son what his interest was. He doesn't want me to give him money to trade with.
Which is good. That's cool. So I asked him what his intentions were and he said, are you going to go through.
Like a.
Proper again, and he said he was going to use top step now for disclosure.
Anyone anyone from top step is listening.
I don't know if they do or don't. I know I have students on mentorship that are affiliated with them.
Directly not just users on it, but they.
Have no connection to me.
They have no connection to my son. There is no affiliate links.
Okay. I have no connection with top step. I did not ask them to be a partner with me. I didn't ask me to be a partner with them.
I'm not trying to push any of you to their company.
I personally would not trade with with the company like any of them.
I personally wouldn't do it. I'm just stating full disclosure.
While my son learns how to do this, when he feels equipped to do that again.
He will then use top step to do a.
A funded account. So that way everything could be seen through the lens of that instrument.
So you can see what he's doing when he's making money when he's not making money.
If he does any withdrawals and gets payouts, you'll see all that stuff.
Okay. So it's kind of like a test to baby experiment.
He's completely what he says he is. We'll see what happens when you look further along.
But he said he's comfortable with disclosing all of it.
And he wants to put it on his own YouTube channel.
And why does he want to do that? Because I'm going to I'm going to kill that real quick because I know a lot of your.
You know, I'm going to kill this stuff and your paintings are on a bunch.
Oh, if he's so good and he's your son, he shouldn't need to do all these things.
Well, here's what he's doing. He's working a job. Just like you are.
You're working a job, but you're probably on other people's YouTube channel when you're trolling people and you're on those social media trolling because you're miserable because you don't have any money.
Dad's not giving him any money. He doesn't want dad to give him money.
He wants to do it on his own steam. I respect that. That's exactly what I wanted him to do.
I gave money to Cody and it didn't help him.
So I learned my lesson there. So I make my kids work.
If he knows there is an interest and there's a huge interest in what my kids are learning from me directly.
So if I'm willing to teach him that and he's willing to share that and I'm comfortable with that because if he makes a YouTube channel while he's learning, yes, there will be ad revenue behind those videos that he puts up and shows his.
His progress. That's not important right now in the grand scheme of things because there isn't going to be a whole lot of viewership. I'm sure initially.
There's going to be the morbid curiosity of seeing him fail when he does fail and they will be celebrated amongst the social media networks.
Okay, that's great. That's it. That's good because that draws a crowd.
But when he has his milestones where he grows and gets a little bit more understanding and he finds his successes and you hear him explain what he struggles with when you hear him explain what he felt victorious over and what he made a big deal out of while he was first learning how to do it.
And then he realizes it wasn't that big of a deal.
It will personify the very things that I've already taught and mentioned in Twitter spaces where I would more or less counsel encourage them, but you think I'm talking to you.
I'm talking to them.
And it feels like we, you and I have a intimate relationship that I care about you on a personal level, because I'm speaking that way to them.
You can tap into that same network and or hive mentality that I have directed towards my own children by going through this mentorship.
It will be over life price action. It'll be real experience that we can see what it is that you should be doing and try that my best try to steer you away from the things that you're probably going to want to be doing, but they're going to be detrimental to your development.
This first lecture is number one, your mindset going into it and then how we set up our charts, what we're looking for to start a baseline to determine what type of trader you're going to be.
Because it's real important that I don't push you into a mode.
Caleb needs to tell me what he wants to do.
And then once he finds out what that is and I'm going to teach how to determine what that is for yourself today too.
Because you don't have that direction. If you don't have that pathway, you're going to waste a lot of time. You're going to chase things. You're going to worry about things that are not important.
It's going to actually slow your growth. It'll slow down your productivity and it'll hold you back.
And there's nothing more challenging than feeling like you're not doing enough in trading because no matter if you're making money or not, you know what it's like.
If you've made any money, whether it be a demo account, dabbling around with it, or you try to fund the accounts and maybe you got lucky and you got to pay out.
And then now you never can do it again. What changed? Nothing changed.
You just got lucky doing something that had no bearing on what you should be doing consistently going forward.
It was just an aberration and something that it just happened.
But now you have attributed it to oil that method. That's that's skill.
And we're going to show how you develop real skill so that way you can produce a consistent baseline to to evaluate. Okay.
Do I want to be a trader that focuses on long term trend directional moves.
And only trading in that direction or do I look for periods where even in his long term daily and weekly.
Movement.
Where can I see potential intermediate term or short term retracement because.
I understand the trend may be going in one direction, but it's something I don't trust to get it to be a part of because maybe you've tried entering on trend models in a burn you and they retrace deeply against you.
And you feel more comfortable fading those types of moves.
I'm going to teach on that topic as well. So that way you'll have reversible patterns, turtle soup, real turtle soup, not Twitter, wish versions of it.
The idea of knowing where the market should retrace deeper.
Maybe even the basis of retracement set up a long term trend model.
And treat the getting synced with that daily and or weekly direction.
So it's a it's real important that you have some input initially, not just take everything I'm saying writing it down your notes and saying, okay, I'm going to do this, this, this, this, this, and I'm going to follow to the letter of the law.
And then it's going to give me what I'm looking for there. We're in that gray area initially where you have the responsibility because if you don't do this part correctly.
Everything you do after this holds you up. And it's not because my stuff doesn't work. It doesn't mean that I'm not a good teacher. It doesn't mean that you can't be consistently profitable.
It just means that you screwed up and didn't listen to this first lesson. You have to determine what you're going to do as a trader.
And whatever that is, you bloom there, you plant yourself in that. You don't care what Caleb does. You don't care what I do. You don't care what everyone of my other students do that live stream and do it right in front of you.
You don't care what anybody else is doing. You have them outside of my circle of influence. Whatever they're doing, whether they're being profitable or not, that's none of your business.
You're going to have no bearing on their outcome or their results. You're not going to make them more money. You're not going to prevent them from being profitable.
So why waste any time trying to do that? Don't try to copy anybody. Don't try to do that.
The things that you should try to copy is the mindset about what I'm going to cover in terms of reading price.
Very specific generic things that are absolutely not complicated folks. It is not complicated.
Complication comes when people want to try to dilute it to make it look like it really isn't my concepts or my teachings or my lectures.
That's what makes it complicated. That's why everybody asks for my slides from an internship. That's why everybody says, talk little.
You talk too much because most of them are not English speaking individuals and they want to translate it into their local language.
If you are running a YouTube channel, I'm going to toss this in real quick.
If you're doing a YouTube channel and it does enough to you right now that I'm getting to copyright strikes against, you're translating all of my mentorship videos into your local language and I don't give you permission to do that.
I've already taken down several channels that have done that and you can be mad at me. You can send me hate mail.
You can do all those things and be mad at me about that. But I've already said that. I don't give you permission to do that.
If you want to do that, go write a book on Amazon. That's what people have done. I can't stop you from doing that.
Everybody wants to buy them. Go ahead and go do that. You don't have my permission to take the work, the time and effort I put into making charts, the lectures, the graphics, all those things.
I did that on my own. You don't have the rights to use them. You're all going to lose your app revenue on that and I don't feel bad for you because I've already warned you ahead of time.
You don't have the permission to do that.
But Caleb will have whatever he gets in terms of ad revenue to help meet his bills while he works his job.
It helps alleviate some of those things that plague people while they're trying to learn, which is I need to make money real fast because you can't force being profitable.
You can't do it, folks. You absolutely cannot do it. And I said this in my mentorship to my students. I said, listen, one of the best things you can do is create another stream of income.
And I gave them permission that, hey, look, if you want to go out and live stream, not teach, that was when I was doing mentorship.
Go out and show on a live stream and monetize it that your development is here. Here's what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to be profitable and I'm going to trade a 4x market or I'm going to trade, you know, futures or whatever is, you know, some of them trade crypto.
I don't like crypto, but it is what it is. The, by the way, did you hear about crypto or Trump came out and said he was going to make America like the hubs were Bitcoin all of a sudden Bitcoin fell out of bed.
And it's interesting, isn't it? But anyway, I encourage my students to live stream to get a secondary income because that passive secondary income can be a way of maneuvering the future.
And so, you know, you're maneuvering the fear and anxiety away from you needing to be perfect in your trades, which is absolutely toxic.
Absolutely toxic. You cannot have that mindset as a trader. You can't do that.
You have to invite the opportunity for you to be wrong.
It sounds counterintuitive to say, okay, I invite myself to be incorrect about what my assumptions are about price action right now. And when I go into a trade, when you go into a trade, as soon as you enter that trade, you've completely given the responsibility of the outcome to the market.
You don't have any assuredy that your stop loss is going to get you out at that price. You don't have that promise that guarantee the market could have, especially in the conditions we have right now, where a bomb, a work and breakout in an undisclosed location.
Boom, unexpected events. Bang. You have a huge gap.
And it could gap way beyond what your stop off is. And guess what, folks, that risk is always there. That's why every brokerage firm makes you sign these risk disclosures because that's what can happen.
And when it happens, you want to sue the brokerage company. You want to sue this one and sue that one because the unexpected happened.
And for individuals that trade with extreme leverage that would never do that with a real camp, but they'll do it with their funded account because all they got to do is pay the reset.
Or to get free free resets because they're having a Philly program with one of these companies.
It kind of promotes the wrong wrong idea. Okay, it doesn't matter how many times you can show that you did something right here.
But you're constantly restarting these new accounts. If you're an influencer and you keep doing that, you're actually having a detrimental impact on your viewership because knowing that people have selective vision and selective hearing, they're attracted to when it's right and when it makes money.
So therefore, I want to be like this person because look what they just made.
But if you're not disclosing the entirety behind everything and I just blew 25 accounts or I just had to reset 16 accounts because everyone of them just got blew out.
It kind of defeats the whole premise behind what is it you're doing following them, except for just entertainment value.
So I'm trying not to be anything but straight nuts in bolts. This is what you're supposed to be focusing on.
But if I don't lay the ground work initially on the first discussion here in the first 20 minutes or so, you won't know what we're doing.
And you'll just be watching for something and anticipating or trying to predict what it is I'm going to say next.
And that's not going to be helpful to you. In fact, it'll probably be very frustrating for you and you'll either turn off and go watch the usual suspects on my team last year or you'll just walk away and you'll do nothing with it.
And maybe you'll come back to this live stream in a later time, but you'll still have this better taste in your mouth and you won't be willing to write down the things I'm talking about and preparing yourself.
You have to absolutely prepare yourself to learn properly.
And if you don't have that mindset going in, everything you do, everything you focus on will be the wrong things.
But all be doing things that are moving towards consistently profitable. That's the number one goal, whether it be learning from me or learning from anyone else.
It's not a task that is outside your grasp.
Great now it might be because you're brand new.
But if you do the things that I'm going to suggest to my son and he doesn't rush.
He doesn't rush to go and try to pass a combine. He doesn't rush to get a payout. He doesn't try to trade every single fluctuation in price. He doesn't try to do everything that I've made available to all of you, which is what most of my students try to do.
They all dabble too much.
And if you simply go through this simple question and answer for yourself right now.
Are you someone? Now, if you're not paying attention right now, you're distracted. You're going to miss it.
But the type of person you are right now. Are you someone if someone says to you.
I don't think this is possible and it doesn't necessarily be trading. I don't think this is possible or I don't think that you can do that.
Are you someone that says they're probably right.
Or I'm going to show this person they're wrong and I'm going to show them 12 ways that why they're wrong.
And I'm going to do beyond what they thought I said I was going to do or I could do and they said I couldn't do. I'm going to do more than that.
Okay, because right now we're going to divide you all as an audience, because either you're going to be someone that's going to be influenced and held back by someone else's opinion or suggestion on you.
Or maybe you've watched someone else receive criticism.
Okay, you've watched other people receive criticism and then you somehow latch onto that like it was told to you and you feel emotional about it and you have a psychological response.
And it was never directed to you, but you personify it and personalize it to yourself.
And that's very telling that is a barrier for you as a trader. You may not realize it right now, but Friday I'm going to cover the contrast of all that.
You may not know the answers to these things right now today because you want to think about what I'm going to tell you.
And you all want to be able to say yeah I want to be the guy or gal that says if you can't do this I'm going to prove it to him and I'm going to do this and do that.
Every male listening is probably going to be wanting to do that. But in, in honesty, all of you aren't really like that.
You're influenced by other people's opinion and it makes you feel unsure about yourself.
It may be causing anxiety, it may feel embarrassment, you may feel like you don't feel like you're going to do well because of someone else's opinion about you.
Or you have that spark, the inspiration that, well, kicking the hinder parts if you will, to now do something because it's a challenge that's been laid in your hands.
And I'm like, now this is what it's like for me when I listen to other people. When they say this can't be done or no one can do that.
I am the person, my personality is is you tell me that that can't be done or that I can't do something. I immediately, my mind immediately switches on. I'm in predator mode.
I'm looking for every way to come back at them and say, this is how you're wrong. And you're wrong here. And you're wrong here. And you're wrong there. And you're wrong there. Here, there, everywhere.
And I want to bury them in it. That's my mentality. And that's not a strength. That's just how I interact with outside influences.
And that stems from a childhood that I had no control over the factors and environments that I was left in, which were dangerous and they were hostile. So as an adult, now I seek control all the time.
I am a control freak. Everything in every aspect of my life. I have to have control over it. If I don't have any control over it, I have no interest in it.
That's my pre that that's my disposition. That's that's how I am.
You may not be that way. You may be very, very passive. And you may be very lethargic in terms of responding to things that are met.
As a challenge towards you. And you may be using that very perception.
About the marketplace. And that's your hindrance. That's the barrier that you have to. If you have that mentality, you're going to have to break through that. And it's not going to be easy for you.
Because what you're seeing is. Most people fail doing this. Most people are not consistent. Most people can't even determine where the market's going to go, let alone get in it without having stopped out or men at risk appropriately.
That's the majority. That's the truth about this industry. Very, very, very few people can do this consistently.
And you know this, but you're still willing to watch videos. You're still willing to try to practice and dabble because you're waiting for some kind of magical thing occur where it just it clicks for you.
With no real effort, with no real study, with no real logging and journaling, you think it's just going to happen for you. That's not realistic.
So part of this mentorship will be using the. The tools and resources of journaling properly.
But what is it you're supposed to be journaling anyway? Because if you're, if you don't know what you're doing, you don't know where the market's going to go next.
Because you don't know bias. You don't know profiling. You don't know session characteristics, day of week characteristics, seasonal tendencies, all those things.
I'm going to present it in a nice, neat little package, but it cannot be done in one video. I don't, I don't care how many people go on YouTube and try to say.
I've watched all of ICT videos and now I'm going to show you in five minutes how you can do it and you want to do that.
I promise you. Okay, here it is. $500,000. Okay, go out there. You don't know what you're doing right now.
Go out there and watch the one the five minute trainer YouTubers. Okay. And you got four weeks to pass a combine and make $100,000 by the end of the year. If you can prove that I will give you $500,000. I will drive to your location, along in the states.
I will drive because I don't fly. I'll drive to your place and you can live stream live stream, giving you a $500,000 bank check. Okay. That stuff doesn't work folks.
You're going to have to put some real effort into it. You can't condense it. You can't reduce it down. Okay. A lot of people don't realize what you what I just did. I just made a lot of those guys mad and now they're going to really do the little micro mentorships and really what that does is going to bring more traction back this mentorship, because they're going to work for free.
But anyway, see that. Everything's predetermined. He's a mastermind. He's diabolical.
Anyway, the very first step is for you to determine where you are mentally and then determine ahead of time, preparing yourself what adversities are going to be in front of you for the folks that are saying, okay, you say I can't do this or someone else is saying that you can't do this.
You're going to go out of the heart mile net.
That's good that you have confidence in yourself. But the problem is you're going to overstep that and become overconfident. And then as soon as you're met with that first adversity, it's going to really hold you down.
And it's going to cause you to second guess the next step of stepping out there in faith and determining what it is that you're trying to do or practicing.
What you end up doing is the initial strength is I'm strong. I'm confident and nobody's going to tell me I can't do it. I'm going to do it better than I would have done it if I would just invited me to do it casually.
But now because they said I couldn't do it, I'm going to do a superhuman Olympic feet of it.
And by doing that, what you end up doing is you increase the level of adversity, the difficulty, you put a time limit on it, which is the worst thing in the world to do.
You absolutely put a time limit on how fast you should learn how to do something. As soon as someone starts telling you, I'm going to teach you how to do ICT or anything else in this number of days.
Absolutely. I promise you, they are full of grade A manure.
They're lying to you. That's clicks for money.
They want you to either buy something they're going to upsell to you later on, or they want you to keep watching their videos that are not going to help you.
They may be entertaining, but they're not going to supercharge your understanding. They're not going to make you faster at learning it.
The only thing they're doing is trying to capitalize on a market that's huge right now, which is TikTok mentality.
10 second, 15 second, 30 second time span of attention span.
And I have no patience for anyone. Zero patience for anyone as a student that thinks like that. I broom them quickly.
I get them out of my face. I don't want to have any interaction with them because you're absolutely lazy.
You're absolutely lazy. You want it easy. You want it real fast and you have unrealistic expectations.
And anyone that has common sense will tell you that that is someone that will not be successful period and the store.
If you don't want to warm up to the idea to have to do this properly and understand.
Really understand that's what mentorship is understanding how you're going to most likely interact with the marketplace.
What's a reasonable response to you for you feeling this way or that way should the market produce an outcome that was either favorable or not favorable.
How are you going to interact with this? Say the first time you sit down, you try to test something and it takes off and runs like 150 handles in the NASDAQ.
What's that going to feel like for you? You're going to feel ecstatic. You're going to be excited and you're going to feel like,
wow, this is a whole lot easier than I thought. And that's wrong.
But see, that's the problem with these 20 year olds that teach. They want you to have the emotional stimuli because that emotional stimuli gives you a rush.
It's dopamine. It gives you that physical feel good butterfly moment that does not last.
It will not last. 10 minutes later, you're not buzzing by that right call that you made, that demo trade that you made,
or that you just passed your combine. You all think that I got to get my combine past and then I can start trading on account where I can make profitable trades.
So you're willing to do everything and anything, just the gamble to get it passed.
And then once you get there, you think it's going to be easy when it becomes extremely much more difficult because now you don't want to lose that past funded account.
And every candlestick looks like a foreign language to you. Even if you understand certain elements of reading price action, it will look completely different.
You won't feel comfortable pushing a button because now you're thinking, if I get in right here, what if it goes down to here?
Or what if it goes this to this high here? Where do I put my stock loss? I don't want to get stopped down.
But I got to use a stop and see what are you doing? You're trying to protect yourself from a losing trade because that losing trade, even if it's small in denomination, if it's small in amount of really, you know, dollar risk.
The lasting impact and the depth of how far it digs into your backside.
It's monstrous because you're creating a demon.
You're manifesting your worst adversary because you didn't do everything that I'm suggesting as a starting point right now.
It prepares you for this.
What do you think basic training is for when people go to the military?
It's to get the person physically fit, get them introduced to constant disruption, constant mental fatigue.
So that way they're not shell shocked when they get out on the battlefield and freeze up.
They're used to being treated like trash, worked out, fatigued, run them, work them hard, talk down to them.
There's no hope.
There's no hope while you're in basic training.
Well, this is what this is like here. This is basic training.
I'm not going to sugarcoat it for you millennials. I'm not going to be nice to you and say, honey, it's going to be okay.
Let me hold you close and call you. ICT's got you, baby. ICT's got you. It's okay. It's okay.
That's not what this is.
You want to learn how to trade? You want to be consistently profitable? ICT's not going to be rubbing your shoulders for you.
Okay. And powder in your ass when the market's in front of you and you're ready to take a trade.
And it's all on you. I'm not going to be there.
You have to be able to do this on your own.
You have to be able to do this absolutely isolated. You have to be an island unto yourself.
When everybody else is on social media saying they want to do one thing or the other,
and you look at your model saying, I don't see that, you got to be completely comfortable with that.
Not for the basis of just simply being a contrarian alone, but for the basis of, okay, I understand what I'm looking for.
And this is just further confirmation that the herd of sheep out there are expecting this.
So I know I have a lead pipe since trade now because every time Dick and Harry out there is wanting the market to go to this level or this direction.
And here I am sitting confidently waiting for a setup that's completely diametrically opposed to what they expect.
That's one of the things that I take great comfort in watching live streamers because sometimes they get it right.
That's fine. Most of the time they aren't.
And the times that I'm looking for something before I even start looking at their live stream, if it's opposed to what I'm expecting, it's a dead deal.
It's over. I know I'm over the target.
I know I'm right. And it's not the goal here, but I know I'm going to use the maximum leverage.
Okay, so whatever my maximum leverage would be for that individual asset class or that market, I would be comfortable dealing that.
But initially when you first want to do this, you want to be trading, listen folks, I know this is going to be unpopular, but you want to be trading with a micro.
Just because that funded account says I can trade five contracts of the NASDAQ with $3,000 of a cushion.
I want you to hear this. Okay. And I mean this sincerely. And I'm not trying to be funny about it.
But if you're trading more than one contract.
Of a micro with 3000 cushion.
And you're not consistently profitable and you don't know what you're doing. You're absolutely gambling and gamblers don't last long.
You can gamble. There's a lot of people over the years with all these funded account companies. I've had students that's done this too.
Paid mentorship students that have gone through it.
They've passed combines. They got paid out.
And then they lost it. And then it completely undid them and they can't get it back and they can't pass another combine. Why what happened? The concepts that working. Did they change the algorithm? No.
Now they have mental baggage. They have scar tissue.
And now the lessons I taught in those Twitter spaces over the last couple years and now I'm not on Twitter.
The the depths of where I was trying to take you.
A lot of you haven't gone to those places yet in your trading. So the lessons is what right of your head.
It doesn't apply to me. But for anyone that has actually tried to trade with real money or had a live account or a funded account and has taken withdrawals from the marketplace.
And then they lost it. Now those Twitter spaces. Now those talking points. Those lectures like we're doing right here.
They are much more meaningful and they're impactful and they are helpful.
But we have a millennial that wants to go ahead and show. Look man, this guy's full of crap.
You know, he's he's talking too much. He ain't done anything.
He ain't pushing any buttons. How am I going to learn from somebody like that? I need somebody going to show me what to do.
So I can copy them. That's me learning. No, that's not you learning.
That's how you grow codependent. And I don't want any of you to be codependent. I want you to be able to walk out there.
And say this is what I see potentially unfolding in the marketplace today. So I'm going to build an idea.
On how the market may in fact set this up.
And if I understand that this is where it's likely to go and not what I mean by that is where's the draw on liquidity. Where's the market likely to go?
You know, what are we looking for in terms of potential expectations and where the market could trade to.
And that could be something like this. We go to.
We have relative equal highs right here. Okay. Very simple, smooth price level. The market's gone down a lot.
Several thousand handles. Okay, we had a huge gap. New week opening gap here. So where we settled on Friday.
And where we opened on Sunday at six o'clock last night.
Eastern time in the States. That new week opening gap. That's a draw on liquidity.
But we don't need it to trade all the way up to there. So where is the low hanging fruit objectives for just short term bias.
This is what I'm teaching you Caleb initially. I want you to think about where the market could draw to right now where it could go to next.
And what that does is it gives you something to focus on.
And it also gives you a way of measuring.
Every individual candles formation and what your expectation is as it's forming and what the next candles should do and how they behave and what it feels like for you when you do this.
Because whether you want to admit it or not.
When you're first starting.
The majority of your time is going to be spent in uncertainty.
In times of confusion.
It's going to be.
Fearful.
It's going to be.
Well, it's going to feel very.
Anxious.
You'll feel anxious.
You may even start feeling body symptoms of tingling this lightheadedness.
You're going to get sick.
And you may still only be in a demo because what you're doing is you're elevating the outcome to a level that is.
Not expected.
You don't need to put that much pressure on you.
In fact, if that's how you're thinking.
It's normal for you to feel that when you first start trading with a real account.
That's a normal thing, but there's no way around it.
There's no way around that first trade with real money.
That fear and anxiety is something you just have to engage it.
And that's why I say, as soon as you get a lot of count.
First thing you should do is flip a quarter.
Lowest leverage.
If it's tails, you buy it.
If it's heads, you sell short or vice versa and do the smallest leverage and put a 15 point stop on it and just let it happen to you.
And get it.
Break the ice and let it go.
But see a lot of you, if not all of you, you want your first trade to be a winner because you think it's a jinx.
Okay.
It's somehow an invitation for failure.
If your first trade with your real account loses money.
Like that's somehow defines your entire career.
It doesn't.
It's just one transaction.
But the way you overcome that is spending time without pushing a button, studying where price can go.
And that's this.
We have this short term, ha here.
Post eight 30, meaning after we had eight 30.
Right here we have.
Eight thirty six.
So the market went below these relative equal lows.
So any liquidity below that, they disrupted that and then took it above this short term high.
Talking about this short term high and trade it right inside this fair value got right there.
So when you're watching price Caleb, you're looking for how the market maneuvers.
And trades.
And books between obvious price levels.
With old highs old lows.
And inefficiencies.
They're the only two things you're worried about.
You're not trying to predict a direction on the day.
You're not trying to be right about 50 handle runs.
You're just studying, observing.
Okay.
This down closed candle here after taking out the liquidity and then we have displacement here.
Displacement is where the market runs against a.
Pre session, pre day, pre.
Trend or price swing direction.
In other words, it's a counter move to what's already been in play.
So the market has dropped here and then we move aggressively above the short term.
This high being traded above there.
We go back down to this down closed candle that down closed candle is a order block.
We have displacement.
It took liquidity and the market has been one directional.
Now what makes that a order block specifically is it has happened.
Coast eight 30. Now it could have formed right at eight 30.
Because eight 30, the algorithm will start.
Spooling for liquidity or inefficiencies one or the other.
Now in the beginning, you're going to want to know because you're probably asking right now.
Can you just tell us what is going to reach for?
Is it going to go for an old hire old love?
Or is it going to go for a fair guy?
You got above or below.
Both.
It's going to go for both.
That's that complicated?
No.
Now to further strip away the complication you're adding to it right now.
You're bringing all these things.
But what if the COT?
I didn't say anything about a COT.
Yeah.
But what happens if the.
Did I say anything about those things that you're thinking right now?
No, they're not important.
The only thing we're doing is we're sitting down.
At a time.
A time when the market is predisposed.
That means it's most likely going to do this and it will do it.
Unless some unexpected event.
Where manual intervention steps in.
And you don't know.
And I don't know when that's going to happen.
What does it look like when the market just starts going.
And it starts going one direction and it doesn't stop.
It doesn't go up a little bit.
Come back with it up a little bit.
Come back with it.
That's that's market standard delivery.
Intervention is think like.
FMC.
Think like.
CPI.
Think like.
Nonfarm payroll.
Where.
If you're wrong.
If you're offside.
Right when it hits the market.
You're dead.
That's what manual intervention looks like.
There are many times.
Untradable.
It takes off so fast.
You you reasonably.
No, not reasonably.
You're you're it's unreasonable for you to assume that you can trade that once it starts.
Because you're literally.
Chasing the wind and you're never going to catch it.
You're just going to.
Frustrate yourself and get placed very poorly.
And you're going to be in a trade that's going to be highly.
Anxious and stressful.
And that's not trading that's gambling.
So.
When we look at individuals sit up setups like this.
You want to sit down in front of the marketplace.
Right before 8 30.
Okay.
Preferably eight o'clock.
And you want to look at where the highs in the lows are.
In in deference to the one minute chart in the 15 minute timeframe.
So I'm going to change this chart.
You're going to 15.
So here's what 15.
It looks like.
Here.
And if you look at where we came from see this high.
At seven o'clock in the morning.
That's this high right there.
See it on the right chart.
So this chart is larger chart here is the one minute and this is the 15 minute timeframe.
15.
Five.
One minute.
Those are your first three time frames to worry about.
Okay.
I shouldn't say worry because it's kind of like usually subconscious concern that you need to worry about.
You don't need to worry about.
But the levels and inefficiencies on the 15 minute timeframe.
The five minute timeframe.
And the women timeframe.
If you're brand new, you don't know how to trade ICT.
You don't have a trade price action.
You don't have trade period.
Okay.
You don't need any other timeframe.
Okay.
You don't need anything else.
You don't need a daily chart.
You don't need an hourly chart.
You don't need a 31 minute chart.
You don't need a 17 minute chart.
You don't need a 15 second chart.
You don't need anything below a one minute chart.
You don't need anything else to do what I'm going to teach you.
Okay.
This is what you're doing.
You're studying price at specific times of the day.
If you're not writing this part down, you're blowing it already.
So between eight o'clock and eight thirty in the morning, New York local time or Eastern standard time.
In the US.
Everything I mentioned in terms of time.
If it's the time.
That matches New York local time.
So set a clock.
If you have your smartphone, there's a way that you can pull up world time.
And put one in there for New York.
And you'll always know.
What time I see T saying to look for these things to happen because they're never going to not be there.
Write that down again.
Okay.
And underline it.
This is always absolutely without fail.
It's never not going to do it.
It's always every single F and A.
It's going to do this very thing.
It's going to do it.
It's going to absolutely do it.
Because there is an algorithm and it does this to spur on.
Emotional interest or tangible orders that are actually sitting out there.
Real orders that are sitting above and below or inside of inefficiencies where the market needs to offer fair value to the marketplace.
So.
What is it reaching for?
It's reaching for old highs, old lows and inefficiencies.
That's the fair value gap.
Siby, but this thing.
So.
Once we know that the market is likely to do these things, that's a characteristic.
It's an algorithmic characteristic.
You don't need anything else besides this element.
As the foundation to what you're trying to trade.
And then you're trying to make a difference.
The foundation to what you're trying to trade.
And you can make all the money you'd ever want.
I'm going to say that again.
Okay, she missed it.
You're trying to find right now, you want the daily bias and you want to be able to buy below the open and hold for the whole entire day.
But are you really doing those things when you try to trade?
No.
As soon as you get 10 handles or 10 pips or whatever.
You start struggling with holding onto the trade.
You're paranoid that that winning trade.
You just found out.
Just fell into your lap.
Oh my goodness.
This I'm winning.
This is something new.
I need to secure this.
But then you're thinking, oh wait a minute.
I'm supposed to be holding for the daily range.
And then you're wrestling.
And that becomes a real hard wrestling match, doesn't it?
It makes you feel nauseous.
And if anybody tries to talk to you, even if they love you, your spouse, your girlfriend, your boyfriend, your child, your dog comes over and nuzzles up next to you.
Any other time you're like, oh, this time, get away from me.
Can't you see I'm trying to worry about this 10 pips handles move?
The weight of the world is on my shoulders right now.
And you're coming at me with this.
You know what it means.
You're stressing out.
Why?
Why would you have that response?
Folks, listen to headphones like, oh, me, this guy.
You're awake now, aren't you?
But that's the reality.
That's what it's like.
And you'll feel it.
If you've never been there, you'll feel it.
But the reason why you feel that is because you don't know what you're doing.
You haven't done this part long enough where you're completely desensitized to, okay, I'm doing this exercise to get comfortable with anticipating price moves.
I'm getting comfortable with not knowing what it's going to do next candle, this candle, five candles from now.
But I think it's going to draw to specific price levels.
So if it clears that short term, what we talked about, what's it going to reach into?
We have this inefficiency here.
How long does it take to do that?
You record, you screenshot this and you say, okay, what took one, two, three, four, five, six candles from this volume imbalance to run above this short term high and get into this city, which is a cell sign and balance by sound efficiency.
A fair value gap that has a down close is a city.
A fair value gap that has a up close is a busy by sound and balance cell, so what you're doing is you're measuring because you have zero baseline experience.
You have no continuity in what is you're reaching for looking for in price action.
And you study how long it took and you record that many, this many minutes.
And you also are honestly going to record in your journal within the screenshot, like maybe over here or somewhere over here.
You're going to record what it felt for you physically.
Were you anxious?
Did you second guess that it was going to run there?
Did you feel excited the entire time?
Were you impatient that you thought it should have moved there sooner and faster?
Did certain candle formations calls you to, you know, doubt it?
Did you have a point at which you thought that it was given another opportunity to trade to, or not trade to, but offer another entry like the safe rental thing if you want to pyramid.
Pyramid should not be part of your repertoire yet.
That's something that you need to be doing maybe a year after trading with one contract.
Oh, come on.
You want to learn how to do it correctly. This is the way you do it.
There's all kinds of time and opportunity for pyramid trades, but you first have to get good at trading with one micro contract.
One micro contract, because what that does is it removes, hopefully, this is the only thing you can do to fend off the greed and fear.
You can't blow the account if you trade with one micro.
And you only take one trade a day.
It's physically impossible for you to go out there on day one and blow the account.
See, that's what your subconscious is fearful of. I don't want to blow the account.
I don't want to have a big losing trade. I don't want to go into big drawdown.
Okay, that's easy.
Don't overlap with your account and don't take more than one trade a day.
But I see tea, but I see tea nothing.
If you want to be able to do it correctly, you have to do things with a process.
There has to be a logic behind it. There has to be some measure of rule based thinking, and then you have to adhere to that.
If you don't want to adhere to rules, I promise you, you're going to lose.
You're going to fail and you're going to blame me. You're going to blame everybody else. You're going to blame the prop firm. You're going to blame the brokerage firm.
You're going to blame everything, but you.
I know this because I did the same thing as a 20 year old. I did the same thing numerous times. I have students.
That repeat the same thing. They sent me hate mail years ago.
Oh, you didn't teach me right. This blah, blah, blah. And then later on, they went through it properly and then they sent me emails apologizing.
It was a mistake on my part. I see tea. I didn't listen. I went back and read listen to it all. And I made all the mistakes you said I was going to make.
If I didn't listen and just plunged ahead and did what I wanted to do. Now I did it the right way. I listened to what you were expecting in terms of a properly mindset student that follows the rules and accepts the diversity.
Initially, they're normal. They're all normal growing pains.
But see, you're trying to be the exception. You don't want it to happen to you.
You think it's going to be candy bars and milkshakes and just everything sweet and lovely butterflies are going to come land on your hand and everything is going by.
No. No, no, no, no, no.
As soon as you press the button, you're asking the shark to take a leg off.
You're asking that lion to take your face off. You're inviting it.
That's what it is. As soon as you enter these markets, you've entered the jungle. You've entered the deep waters.
And honey, everybody's hungry.
And if you offer it up on a silver platter, they're going to take it and eat it.
And you can't be upset about it. That's the currency here.
Yours are mine. Mine are yours.
That's it. It doesn't matter how anybody else trades. It's are you liquidity right now?
Are you liquidity? Because if you're liquidity, you're lunch.
I go in and I'm looking for lunch. I'm looking for the liquidity. I'm looking for reasons why the market will trade to this level.
Why it could potentially trade to this level, but I don't need it to trade, for instance.
This is the draw on liquidity. Draw on liquidity is just a initial reasonable assumption on our part to determine a directional move that could unfold.
It does not mean and it does not define the absolute terminus to a price run or the be all end all target.
In planar terms.
The market's probably going to keep moving until it gets to this level. It doesn't mean that it can't have retracement.
It's lower. It doesn't mean that it can't make a lower low than it's done here.
Highly unlikely, but it's still an initial idea. So when you're first trying to learn how to read these markets, when you're first trying to determine where the markets likely to go.
You have to strip away everything that you're trying to force into reading every single individual candlestick.
If you watch a lot of my videos or if you have a lot of notes or you've dabbled in things, chances are you probably already have a pet technique that you want to be yours.
You may not even be good at using it, but you just want it because it has a cool name, like a Reaper, a fair value guy.
When I talk that to my prior mentorship, they're like, oh, man, that's going to be my thing. That's going to be it for me.
Or Event Horizon, which is the midpoint between two new week opening gaps or new day opening gaps.
Because of the names, okay, these names are meaningful to me.
They're not meant to inspire you to want to do them over another.
It's just that's what I mean. I got 81 of these things. So it's a way for me to keep track of what its purpose was.
And or it kind of puts a little stamp of when I discovered it and something had a impact on me and it was a cool name or inspiration to it.
So when we're looking at price as you as a brand new student, not knowing what to do, you want to make this kind of like a game.
And a discovery, something fun, not a video game. Okay, but it's a game of determining.
Does it have what it takes to move to these highs here?
A way of saying it to yourself. That's very disarming. It's okay. I see how this is smooth.
These two highs are relatively equal. That looks like a real nice obvious flat space in price.
We don't see that same flatness down here. You see that?
So in other words, if you had a shark, if you had two sharks, you have two sharks in front of you.
One has had its teeth removed.
Well, that would be represented something like this. This is the shark with no teeth. It's basically got gums. Okay, there's no teeth there.
Down here, there has been a shark attack. How do we know that? Because we can see the wounds from the teeth, the jaggedness, the jaggedness, the jaggedness.
And now it's gone to another free to another frenzy or feeding. Where is that? Well, we've just created one.
We have this high here that's really close to this one. You see that?
So you observe price action and you're looking for areas that look real smooth and safe.
Where they say peace and safety, sudden destruction comes upon them.
Any time that you're looking at price action, and it doesn't matter what time frame you're looking at.
If you're looking at it through the lens of a second chart sub sub one minute or a weekly chart or a monthly chart or quarterly chart where it's three months of data compressed in to make the candlesticks.
It does not matter.
This principle is always true. The market will go to an area of smoothness for the purpose of disrupting any orders that would be resting above or below it.
We've already mentioned down here.
Now, don't be discouraged.
If you can't watch this stuff real time and see it or outline it in advance.
It's okay for you to come home for work.
And look at your your charts after the fact and go back and look at this and study it as if.
You have obviously the benefit of hindsight initially, but you don't want to stay in that very long.
So you're going to have to.
Perpure yourself some instruments that allow you to watch price action, not with market replay.
Look, I am not a fan of market replay. I absolutely load it. I hate it. I can't stand it and I wish it wasn't available.
That's that I wish it wasn't even available to anyone else because it's a crutch that allows frauds to be able to sound like they're smart and teach something because it's already happened.
If you can do it over life price action.
Not just once in a while, but continuously and your audience or viewership can see this.
Then you have earned the right to have a voice and then people should have no problems sitting and listening to lecture and talk about what you think is likely to occur because you have a sound basis or foundation to what it is that you're talking about.
And therefore, because you have a tracker being able to talk about before it happens, it removes the anxiety that is reasonable for everyone to have when you first sit down and listen.
But when you as the student and you don't have the ability to watch it live because you have a job or you're in university or you sleep, like you have to sleep, right?
And your place in the world and your general geographic location may not be conducive for you to trade at 830 tomorrow, New York local time.
You may have to trade in the London session. And yes, Virginia, I will be up during the London session doing one of these or two of these lectures in a week or two.
So we're not, we're not focusing on one specific time of the day and I'll come back to that section where I was telling you right down the times of the day.
But when we're looking at initially, you don't have to see this real time to get a collection of screenshots for your journal.
But if you don't do this in journal and screenshot and annotate your chart and study how long price runs took place, how many candles did it take to move there?
Was there any kind of formation in the price delivery that would have caused you to not trust it unfolding?
Now, that's going to be very hard for you to do because initially, exhausted the men, they're always going to say, no, I would have never second guessed it would have been easy for me to hold on to that.
And the same people when they get into a trade, if they ever were to do it in front of you, they don't have any conviction and they're going to bail out on the trade.
Okay, I got to get out of this. I can't stand the pressure. It's moved five handles.
But they call 30 handles or 50 handles above or below, and they get out of five handles because the pressure of it not doing what they expected to do and then realizing a loss in front of someone.
That's a lot more pressure for them and they don't want to have that. So what's more important, their image or then following a model that they have seen works and have trusted and did the back testing and they had the data behind their image.
And that's not someone you still learn from. Okay, I'm just tossing that out there.
So what we're looking for always the first thing that you're looking for Caleb is where is the market smooth on the 15 to five and then one minute chart.
Is that complicated? Nope, it's not complicated at all. It's real simple. What does it look like to be smooth? When you have price levels that create highs like this swing high here and this swing high here.
They're real close to one another. See that.
When you're looking for relative equal highs. Here's your secret weapon for it. Okay.
How do you know it's a high probability relative equal high that's likely to get swept or traded through? How do you know that I see team with differentiates that from any other. Okay, it's this.
If you have to swing highs if the one to the left is slightly higher than the right, you have a very, very high probability that they're going to want to take it above there.
Just like you see here. We have a high and then the swing here happens to be just a little bit lower than that.
Here's what's going on. This is called priming. Okay, priming is where you continuously create, inspire or manipulate the expectations of a large number of investors.
And they think, oh, it's going to go through that high, but then there's a lot of folks that don't want to see it go there because they went short.
So when the market goes up here and stops and turns down, what that does is it creates a sympathetic sign.
The shorts are relaxing. If the shorts are relaxing, what are they saying? They're saying that this is now what resistance.
So anyone that takes a new short position, where are they going to think that the safest place to put your stuff off is going to be right above these highs.
Why can we trust that they're likely to take that relative equal high up?
Not that it will that session that you're trading, but it's high probability that this will be swept when the second or the one to the right, that swing high is lower than the one to the left that frames these two as relatively equal.
Okay.
Same thing is occurring here. We have this high here, this high here. This one being slightly lower than that one.
So when the market went up like this and we had this drop down with that causes, it's a sympathetic sign.
What is that causing people, anyone that went short here, they feel like, okay.
That's scary because it almost went to the high where their stop loss would be if they're trying to go short in this area. See that.
So, what do you think it looks like when we have relative equal lows?
What would be a high probability relative equal low that the market is likely to draw down and go below.
It would be a low.
That has a slightly higher.
Higher.
Low in common terms, it's referred as a failure swing.
Okay.
So a failure swing.
Now, I'll be able to see he's just reinventing.
No, see what you you're trying to trade that.
That's what a failure swing is when you're trying to trade long or short on that second pass that doesn't take out the low or take out a previous high.
That's selling short of very swing.
Okay.
What I'm teaching you is how to identify in price action where the algorithm will refer back to and why.
What are the what are the.
The central tenants as to what the algorithm is referring to.
At a specific time of day, most important, and then it refers back to these because, okay, it sees this high based on time and in the higher, higher prior to that one is here.
So it's very simple for the algorithm to call that information as an array and say, okay, this high was at this time and this high was higher than prior to it.
And they're in close proximity.
What's the filter?
I'm not going to tell you that, but it's not very much in terms of difference between the price.
And when you have that element, the market will invariably start marching back to those levels.
It does not matter.
It absolutely listen, listen folks, it does not matter.
How many buyers are buying the market to go up there and how many short sellers.
Okay.
The proof of it is, is this just look at a depth of market.
Look at a ladder.
Okay, a dom, not a dome.
Okay.
I'm so tired of hearing people.
It's not a dome.
Do you see an E at the end of that?
It's D.O.M. It's a dom.
Okay.
Depth of market.
Look at those orders.
There's no imbalances there.
There's just as many short orders below the market as there is above.
But yet the market will still march and march and march and march and go to the B of the drum that I tell you it does.
It reaches to these levels because it's coded to do this.
And if you do this for a couple weeks, you're going to see, oh, wow, yeah, this feels artificial.
It feels like it's, it's designed to do these types of things.
To do these types of things because they tend to repeat every single day, specific times of the day.
It will do this.
Let me go back to the times element.
Every day.
Between eight o'clock in the morning.
It's always New York local time.
Okay. So it's very important.
You remember that.
I have new people coming all the time.
And they'll say, I looked at this chart here and you told me, yeah, but you're looking at it in Bangladesh time.
Okay.
I don't live in Bangladesh.
I'm in the East coast of the United States and the algorithm is on New York local time.
I don't care what anybody else tells you.
Okay.
That's what it's on.
Period.
And the story.
You can wrestle with it if you want, but that's just the way it is.
Between eight o'clock.
In eight 30 in the morning.
You want to sit down and determine where are the smooth locations and price action on the 15 minute.
The five minute in the one minute.
Okay.
And we've, we've, we've had the 15 minute on.
Let's go down to a five.
Okay.
So right away, you can see that this high here.
Is relative to that one.
And this one here also with that.
This one being slightly higher than that one.
So there's a lot of liquidity that's sitting at 17,820.75.
Now, real important.
It does not mean that it has to happen during that session.
It does not mean that.
And that is the underlying risk that you assume everything will time you take a trade.
You're looking for things that are going to stack the odds.
Of probability in your favor.
It does not mean it's an absolute guaranteed outcome.
See, I have students that literally take the time and waste their time.
And writing me an email.
Sometimes they're like novels or novellas.
And usually it's like three paragraphs of congratulating me and worship them, whatever.
And I don't like that.
And usually when I get that kind of stuff, I immediately just, this, it's.
Push the email away.
I don't want you looking up to me.
I don't want you worshiping me.
I'm not the greatest of all time.
I'm not the goat.
I'm not none of those things.
I'm just a guy that has a whole bunch of information and experience.
And I want to share it with you.
And I want to see what you do with it.
But these individuals will say, you know, I need you to tell me how to make sure that I don't have this wrong.
I only want to take this pattern.
So how do I avoid taking losing trades with a.
Inversion fair, right?
Or a mitigation block or the breaker.
How do I know if it's a breaker or if it's a shift in market structure?
Well, that's easy.
You have to have a higher time frame premise and a directional draw where the market's going to go.
And if you think it's going to go higher, when you see the market creating.
A short term term.
Well, I'll get into the example over here.
We have the relative equal lows here.
And the market drops.
You see that?
So this drop down here, every up close candle on this timeframe.
All of this right here.
That is your breaker.
The most sensitive candle or range is going to be the last up close candle.
Look at it like this.
That's this range low.
And see where the body stops right there.
We went through it.
I'm not that I know, but the damage is always done by the way.
And the range high there.
That is your bullish breaker.
But the range here from that up close candle, it starts all these consecutive.
Up close candles.
All of that is technically.
The bullish breaker.
So the most sensitivity is going to be seen in that last up close candle.
That is not supplying the man.
That's not that's not supplying the man's own.
Same side would never ever, ever refer to what I just said.
Never.
He would never do that.
And he would never consider that anyway, because we're cutting through candles.
Because we're looking at what an algorithm is doing.
Not some.
For trader ticket runners perception of something that doesn't really exist.
So the turn here at the bodies, that tells you what.
Tells you the narrative.
So what is it going to do?
It's going to go higher.
Okay.
So what at that time would you focus on?
Well, you have this short term high here.
The inefficiency that's traded to there.
We want to see it trade above it and then act as what support, which will be a what?
Inversion for your baguette to do that.
What would it reach for next?
This high and this inefficiency.
Does it do that?
Yes.
What are the bodies doing?
Stopping just at that same level here and more specifically in my eyes.
Didn't notice this one up.
You see a little separation.
That's a volume imbalance.
Go back and listen to the other lectures.
You have to include that volume of balance when you have a fair bag.
Whether you miss your city.
You can see the bodies being encapsulated by that.
And now the market trades back up into that the bodies.
I'm sorry.
The oddies.
Candlesticks are changing inside the inefficiency.
It wicks above it, but look where the bodies are stopping and look where the bodies are over here.
Where's the put it yet?
The low here.
Nothing in here.
This is all very balanced price delivery.
But it's back and forth.
Every other candle is overlapping the highest high and the lowest low.
Pretty much kind of like coloring it.
Very, very, very good.
Back and forth.
All this price action is back and forth versus then we have all these run.
We have separations in here.
Back down into that breaker there.
This response right here to what it's just done there.
That expectation and response in how price can react to levels like that.
That's a nice little scalp right there.
I mean, okay, it moved from 515 to what?
596.
That's a good run.
You can't get 20 handles out of that.
We want a 15 second chart.
You can if you know what you're looking for.
Now also notice that we've created again.
High lower high.
High lower high, but real close to one another.
When did it form prior to 930?
So we have 8 to 830 and then you study 9 to 930 because it's going to do what?
It's going to look and seek the liquidity or inefficiencies.
Here's 930.
There forming on the bullish breaker.
It trades down and then we have relative equal highs here.
I don't like to usually do this, but I have to do it for the sake of discussion.
So we have these relative equal highs.
This high and that high relative equal high and we have this area up here.
So if the market's going to do what?
If it's going to make a punishing move towards the shorts that want to see it drop.
Because the market has dropped early on seven o'clock in the morning.
Okay.
And we have all these very clean levels.
What did we just do here?
We have a low.
It was traded down into it disrupted this little area in here.
So it's made this area jagged.
Remember I was saying earlier where the market's real smooth over here.
Versus what it was doing down here.
Where has the work been done?
Meaning.
If there is a group of traders that are very cannibalistic and they tend to be more correct than wrong.
Or if they are the ones that generally make the money.
More consistently than the ones that don't.
In other words, think of like the world series of poker.
Okay.
If you ever watched that.
It's really fascinating to see how the long term players that always find themselves at
the final table.
They may not win, but they always find their way at the final table.
That's experience and that skill.
Well, you can see those things in price action.
They're like fingerprints.
Okay.
You can see when the cannibals come in and devour the pygmies.
They go in there and just chew them all up.
And it's where the market is made jagged.
Price delivery.
Always.
It's always like this folks.
It's never not going to be hidden from you.
Okay.
It's always plain sight.
But see, you're so enamored.
By animal patterns.
Harmonic patterns.
Gimmicky named.
Supposed retail indicators.
Everybody's got a new indicator.
I got one for you.
It's going to beat all of them.
It's the open high, low and close and the clock.
How about that?
How about that?
Catch me on the side.
How about that?
Okay.
It's simple.
And all of you complain.
Not all of you, but just the ass hats do.
Always complicated.
It's convoluted.
So and so teaches this so much better.
Okay.
I don't see so and so doing anything.
But use a market replay.
And try to convince himself everything he says after he says it.
So we had these relative equal highs swept here.
See that?
Case study.
Bullish breaker.
To there.
So how many candles did it take to do that?
You screenshot it.
How many how many handles did it run from the low to that relative
equal high being taken out?
And once it does that, keep that high.
Active with it on there, but then just make it very, very light.
Not that light degree.
Make it light.
So you can still see it, but it doesn't have all of your focus.
So that way allows you to focus on like there's a fair day gap here.
We trade it down into mid gap, which is this wick here.
Since price is above it, that makes it to discount.
Array.
Consulate encroachment of that trades to it.
We want to see it run above this high here.
Some of you that are trying to learn how to do this.
Or having a blast with this, because not only am I giving you
things to talk about in your own journal of focus, but you're also
seeing things unfold over a live chart and you're watching on your
live chart.
Okay.
So this is not market replay.
It's not delayed data.
So you're watching on your live chart.
Okay.
So this is not market replay.
It's not a delay data.
Okay.
It's not after the fact talking narrative over a chart.
Everything that these assets leave comments on in my YouTube comment
section, you can't see, but I see them getting them used by it.
So there's the relative equal highs there too.
So now same thing here.
You want to mute that in terms of its importance.
And now you want to see does it have the wherewithal to run
aggressively for that 17,000, 820.75?
Any of this seem complicated to you?
It shouldn't.
I already know what you're thinking of something you said that
left.
Yes, because you're saying it.
When you talk about it, it's so obvious.
When you talk about it, when it's happening, I can see it when you
point it out.
I just can't point it out when I'm doing it.
Right.
You're just learning it.
You expect to be able to go out there right now if I turn it
on the screen.
You're just going to just know how to do it right away because you
Watson this close one or two things and one element in the
marketplace.
Now you're suddenly going to know how to do it.
Nobody can reasonably expect to do that.
You're placing too much emphasis on being fast.
I got to learn how to do it right now because the market's going
to stop working next week, next year.
I thought the algorithm was supposed to stop working this year.
Whatever.
Get out of here.
I'm going to do it.
Whatever.
Get out of here.
Get out of here.
The batteries don't run dead on this.
When the markets are dead, then the algorithm won't work anymore.
The point is this.
The very, very first thing you're doing as an undeveloped,
unrefined trader, someone like my son Caleb.
Don't be offended by that son.
It is what it is.
I've called you worse things.
The idea is that you're looking for the same thing as your
own.
The idea is that you're looking for the smooth airiness where the
price is so obviously being defended and being presented and
being offered for retail-minded trades.
I don't look at charts.
I absolutely don't look at charts and think of what retail
pattern here I can use to get in sync with a price run.
Look at that beautiful delivery.
Right for that line of bounce there, which is inside and
capped.
I went right to the high of that.
Now, when you're looking at price, you're looking for the obvious
very, very, very smooth relative equal highs or relative equal
lows.
How do you know which one they're going to go to?
How do they know?
I'm sorry.
How do you know?
How can you trust?
How do you determine which side of the marketplace it's going to
reach for?
Because what this is going to do, it gives you the initial
building blocks to understanding bias.
