you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
I
You
I don't like to cultivate an employee mentality because I don't have one.
So my son Caleb recently had an interest in making another attempt at doing this.
I know a lot of you always ask me how my kid is doing, how are they doing in learning and whatnot.
First of all, I make them work and it's work hard.
It will make you want to leave it if you're forced to do it.
If you get money from daddy, if you get a lifestyle given to you, it kind of makes you lazy and become very lots of baseball
and you just don't really have any pursuit in it.
So that method I've used has hopefully done its work in the venom of making him want to leave the rat race.
Knowing that I'm not just going to double money in the up to him.
His interest is again, keeping him wants to make a good attempt at it.
I get a lot of questions about if you're teaching your kids how do you teach your kids?
What is it that you do differently if you do anything differently?
And honestly I do things slightly differently because they're my kids.
You're not entitled to anything from me. I'm not obligated to do anything.
I'm not expected to be your best friend or to be your guy as much as I seem like I am in the videos.
It's because I'm talking to my kids and that's why you have this connection with you.
Because you hear the sincerity of my ideas on teaching because I care about them receiving it from me.
So it's like an archive of me teaching and instructing and encouraging my children.
So when I'm talking with a sense of sincerity and empathy, it's genuine because I have them in my mind.
And very least sometimes I get a few things that's outside my family tree and in our contact me and also I really appreciate if you could do this with that.
And I would touch on those types of things.
Or one of my kids will say, Dad, how do you deal with a situation like this or what if the market does that?
Or how do you know when not to do something? Or when should you really push it aggressively?
I'm going to talk a little bit about that, not so much today.
But I want to give a baseline on where you should be at when you first sit down and start learning how to be used.
I'll push buttons in front of you. I'll talk about whether my kids should go. I'll talk about what PD array isn't so important to me at the time and why.
And the ones that I think are important. So that way it kind of filters out.
And because I plan on doing this Monday through Friday, it will be an exercise for you.
Now if you are already profitable, if you're already profitable, whether you use in my concepts or a derivative of them or you're doing something entirely different, it's probably better that you don't watch the live stream.
I'm going to do what you normally do because I'm probably going to distract you.
Or I'll be a perfect excuse for you. If you take a losing trade, you'll say, I see a false need to lose money and you won't take responsibility and you need to be responsible.
The things I'm going to touch on is obviously where your mind should be every day sitting down in front of the charts.
You have to have some reason to be in the charts doing it. So that's the reason why I started the stream at around 8.5.
And I was like 7 minutes late, but you're not mind flirting. So I can punch in late if I want and I can go if I don't really want.
So I want to talk a little bit about that ahead of 8.30.
We have a heavy rear driver, the ISM, PMI number at 10.5.
I'll be with you until probably the quarter after 10.
But this mentorship, at least the first lecture here, is probably going to be a little annoying for someone you that just want to get out here and start pushing buttons.
But I promise you, if you don't want to sit through this live, come back to it when you have time to do it.
But before you watch tomorrow's live stream, because otherwise you'll miss the whole importance of what it is that you should be doing before you sit down whether you're watching my live stream, someone else's live stream, or you're doing your own model.
Because it's very, very important that you have a real reason of why you're doing it.
If someone you are here just want to see me do something, and it's not pan out.
So if you go on social media and get some clips and lights and some interactions, because you need to get your brochure built in.
And that's fine. That's cool.
But I'm not here to do those types of things. I'm not here to brag. I'm not here to post.
And yes, I'm going to windowbabs and stuff to send me emails.
I have plenty of time for that. Don't worry about it.
It's in the bag. Trust me on that. Okay, I told you all, I would give you a drama. I'll give you a tragedy. I'll give you a tear jerker.
But at the end of the year, it's my name at the top of that list.
Okay, so just relax. Keep making your videos because you want stupid.
Expose L.C.P. failed. Robins cup.
It's going to make me even better.
But anyway, our focus is going to be primarily on a mask today.
But in this mentorship, I will go back to talking about Forex because I know a lot of you are stuck in that asset class.
Okay, even though I'm not interested in pushing any borders through that market anymore.
I will cover some of the things that are salient to that individual asset class when it is appropriate.
But it's not appropriate right now because right now I want you to think about what it is you should be doing before you are trying to trade.
If you're funded accounts, you're trying to pass combines or whatnot.
Full disclosure, I talked to Caleb and I asked him with his intentions where he wants to do what he's willing to do.
He wants to share and document his progress so he'll be doing a YouTube channel.
So when I teach, I'm talking, he's not with me right now, but he's listening and watching it live like you are.
So the things I'm talking about in this is going to be my suggestion to you.
If you maybe have watched some of my videos and you've watched a lot of my videos and you just don't know what to do or where to begin or what to do right now.
What do I do right now? Because it's very daunting seeing how many videos I have and all these different concepts and all these different things.
These moving parts, it's very intimidating and I get it.
But it's meant to be a compendium, meaning it's like it's my entire encyclopedia of what I wanted to do to the public.
So you can go in and build your own model.
So I'm going to show my son how he should do it correctly this time where it's step by step that's going to be explaining it live so that there's no hindsight stuff.
Not that it was ever hindsight when I was teaching him. He would watch me, push the button right in front of him.
He would see me explain, I think it's going to go here. This is where it's going to go next. I don't want to see it do this. I don't want to see it do that.
This is real mentorship. We're not going to be doing any market replay. We're going to talk about theory and say, no, let me push the market forward and watch what happens when you had the benefit of already knowing what it's going to do.
That is absolutely not mentorship. That is absolutely not teaching anybody anything.
And it certainly doesn't inspire trust in the person that you're learning from because they have the added benefit of knowing what has already happened.
So seeing live price action watching data tick without the benefit of knowing what it's going to do is exactly what you as a trader are going to have to encounter.
And if you have re-single time you sit in front of the charts, you don't know what's going to happen.
And right now is a wonderful learning experience because the climate is so statically charged.
Everything that's going on over the Middle East right now, they're going to have reverberations throughout the entire market globally.
And probably in your neck of the woods where you live.
So it increases the level of responsibility on your part as someone that wants to engage in these markets because they're very risky.
And now add to it the increased level and amplitude of uncertainty where anything can happen.
A bomb drops or series of bombs drop in an unexpected location and then boom everything starts changing rapidly.
And that fear and that rush will be injected into the marketplace.
And they will use being the people that are in charge of price action.
It's not the buying and selling pressure that moves price and you'll hear a lot about that as I go.
And there's something you don't like that and there's something you don't believe in an algorithm.
And you believe that buyers and sellers push price and that's fine.
I'll leave you to that myth you want to believe in fairy tales that's your business.
I'm not going to try to wake you up in your dream sleep type.
Price will do what it's going to do because it's coded to do it based on time.
And time is essential.
It's the first hallmark to when and why a market should produce a displacement, a run, whether it be impulsive, whether it be retracement, whether it be anything.
It's always going to be delivered on the basis of time.
It's going to move at a specific time or a period of time within 20 minutes.
That's a macro.
And we're going to talk about those things because I want to simplify it for my son.
You all are getting that benefit of seeing it, hearing it, and being explained to you as if it were you being tailored.
I'm not hiding anything.
I've just sent him a text before our sardis.
I said, just stop texting me.
I'm doing it live right now.
Don't talk to me in a text because you're distracting.
Okay.
So there's no secret texting going on.
There's no conversation behind the scenes.
Everything you see and experience while I'm doing these live streams is exactly what he's digesting the same way.
And the things that I'm going to encourage him to do, my suggestion is to try it for yourself.
And you're going to see everything that I thought is absolutely not complicated.
The complication comes from people that want to take my stuff.
They want to water it down to a one, two, three, ABC pattern so they can go out to Amazon, write a book.
There's dozens of books about me now.
And I'm quite certain, all of them are alone.
But it's a cash grab because my name's big right now.
It won't be forever.
And somebody else will become something interesting and that will be the new bus thing.
But right now, the problem with it, the community that has the interest in me, is either they want to do the gotcha about me because it gives them grocery money.
Or they want to learn from me and then say they don't learn from me, but they talk with my binoculars.
They use all my terms.
They trade just like me, but they say they don't and they do mentorship.
So if you're one of those individuals, I'm going to help you too.
Not because I want to, but because it's going to be a default.
It's going to be a default response to you being here because you're going to learn how to finally do it.
Instead of pretending instead of talking about and teaching the market replay.
Okay.
I asked my son what his interest was.
He doesn't want me to give him money to trade with, which is good.
That's cool.
So I asked him what his intentions were.
And he said, are you going to go through like a.
Proper again.
And he said he was going to use top step now for disclosure.
Anyone anyone from top step is listening.
I don't know if they do or don't.
I know I have students on mentorship that are affiliated with them directly, not just users of it, but they have no connection to me.
They have no connection to my son.
There is no affiliate links.
Okay.
I have no connection with top step.
I did not ask them to be a partner with me.
They didn't ask me to be a partner with them.
I'm not trying to push any of you to their company.
I personally would not trade with a company like any of them.
I personally wouldn't do it.
I'm just stating full disclosure.
While my son learns how to do this, when he feels equipped to do that again.
He will then use top step to do a funded account.
So that way everything to be seen through the lens of that instrument.
So you can see what he's doing when he's making money, when he's not making money.
If he does any withdrawals and gets payouts, you'll see all that stuff.
Okay.
So it's kind of like a test to baby experiment.
He's completely, well, he says he is.
He says he's comfortable with disclosing all of it.
He wants to put it on his own YouTube channel.
Why does he want to do that?
I want to kill that real quick because I know a lot of you are.
He says stuff you can't use are on a bunch.
If he's so good and he's your son, he shouldn't need to do all these things.
Well, here's what he's doing.
He's working a job.
Just like you are.
You're working a job, but you're probably on other people's YouTube channels and you're
trolling people and you're on those social media.
You're trolling because you're miserable because you don't have any money.
Dad's not giving him any money.
He doesn't want dad to give him money.
He wants to do it on his own steam.
I respect that.
That's exactly what I wanted to do.
I want all my kids to do that.
I gave money to Cody and it didn't help him.
So I learned my lesson there.
So I make my kids work.
If he knows there is an interest and there's a huge interest in what my kids are learning
from me directly.
So if I'm willing to teach in that and he's willing to share that and I'm comfortable with
that because if he makes a YouTube channel while he's learning, yes, there will be ad
revenue behind those videos that he puts off and shows his progress.
That's not important right now in the grand scheme of things because there isn't going
to be a whole lot of viewership, I'm sure, initially.
There's going to be the morbid curiosity of seeing him fail when he does fail and they
will be celebrated amongst social media networks.
That's great.
That's good because that draws a crowd.
But when he has his milestones where he grows and gets a little bit more understanding and
he finds his successes and you hear him explain what he struggles with.
When you hear him explain what he felt victorious over and what he made a big deal out of while
he was first learning how to do it and then he realizes it wasn't that big of a deal.
It will personify the very things that I've already taught and mentioned in Twitter spaces
where I would counsel and urge them, but you think I'm talking to you, I'm talking to
them.
It feels like we, you and I, have an intimate relationship that I care about you on a personal
level because I'm speaking that way to them.
You can tap into that same network or hive mentality that I have directed towards my own
children by going through this mentorship.
It will be over live price action.
It will be real experience that we can see what it is that you should be doing and try
at my best, try to steer you away from the things that you're probably going to want to be doing,
but they're going to be detrimental to your development.
This first lecture is, number one, your mindset going into it and then how we set up our charts,
what we're looking for to start a baseline to determine what type of trader you're going to be.
Because it's real important that I don't push you into a mode.
Caleb needs to tell me what he wants to do.
And then once he finds out what that is, and I'm going to teach how to determine what that is for yourself today, too.
Because you don't have that direction.
If you don't have that pathway, you're going to waste a lot of time.
You're going to chase things.
You're going to worry about things that are not important.
It's going to actually slow your growth.
It'll slow down your productivity and it'll hold you back.
And there's nothing more challenging than feeling like you're not doing enough in trading.
Because no matter if you're making money or not, you know what it's like.
If you've made any money, whether it be a demo account, you're going to dab on your own with it,
or you try to fund the account and you've got lucky, you've got to pay out.
And then now you never can do it again.
What changed?
Nothing changed.
You just got lucky doing something that had no bearing on what you should be doing consistently, going forward.
It was just a liberation.
It's something that, you know, it just happened.
But now you've attributed it to, well, that's that's that's skilled.
And we're going to show how you develop real skill.
That way you can produce a consistent baseline to do evaluate.
Okay.
Do I want to be a trader that focuses on long term trend directional moves and only trading in that direction?
Or do I look for periods where even in the long term daily and weekly movements?
Where can I see potential intermediate term or short term retracement?
Because I understand the trend may be going in one direction, but it's something I don't trust to be a part of because maybe you've tried entering on trend models and a burn in a retrace deeply against you.
And you feel more comfortable fading those types of moves.
I'm going to teach on that topic as well.
So that way you'll have reversal patterns, turtle suit, real turtle suit, not Twitter, wish versions of it.
The idea of knowing where the market should retrace deeper.
Maybe even the basis of retracement set up a long term trend model and treat to get in sync with that daily and or weekly direction.
So it's real important that you have some input initially, not just take everything I'm saying, writing it down your notes and saying, okay, I'm going to do this, this, this, this, and I'm going to follow to the law and then it's going to give me what I'm looking for.
We're in that gray area initially where you have the responsibility because if you don't do this part correctly, everything you do after this holds you up.
And it's not because my stuff doesn't work.
It doesn't mean that I'm not a good teacher.
It doesn't mean that you can't be consistently profitable.
It just means that you screwed up and didn't listen to this first lesson.
You have to determine what you're going to do as a trader.
And whatever that is, you bloom there.
You plant yourself in that.
You don't care what Caleb does.
You don't care what I do.
You don't care what everyone of my other students do that livestream and do it right in front of you.
You don't care what anybody else is doing.
You have been outside of my circle of influence.
Whatever they're doing, whether they're being profitable or not, that's none of your business.
You're going to have no bearing on their outcome or their results.
You're not going to make them more money.
You're not going to prevent them from being profitable.
So, why waste any time trying to do that?
Don't try to copy anybody.
Don't try to do that.
The things that you should try to copy is the mindset about what I'm going to cover in terms of reading price.
Very specific generic things that are absolutely not complicated folks.
It is not complicated.
Complication comes when people want to try to dilute it to make it look like it really isn't my concept or my teachings or my lectures.
That's what makes it complicated.
That's why everybody asks for my slides from an internship.
That's why everybody says, talk little.
You talk too much because most of them are not English speaking individuals and they want to translate it into their local language.
And if you are running a YouTube channel, I'm going to toss this in real quick.
If you're doing a YouTube channel and it does enough to you right now that I'm getting a few copyright strikes against,
you're translating all of my mentorship videos into your local language and I don't give you permission to do that.
I've already taken down seven channels that have done that.
And you can be mad at me.
You can send me a hate mail.
You can do all those things and be mad at me about that.
But I've already said that.
I don't give you permission to do that.
If you want to do that, go right above on Amazon.
That's what people have done.
I can't stop you from doing that.
And everybody wants to buy them.
So, go ahead and go do that.
But you don't have my permission to take the work, the time and effort I put into making charts, the lectures, the graphics, all those things.
I did that on my own.
You don't have the rights to use them.
So, you're all going to lose your app revenue and that.
And I don't feel bad for you because I've already won't get ahead of time.
So, you don't have permission to do that.
But, Caleb will have whatever he gets in terms of ad revenue to help meet his bills while he works his job.
And it helps alleviate some of those things that plague people while they're trying to learn, which is, I need to make money real fast.
Because you can't force being profitable.
You can't do it, folks.
You absolutely cannot do it.
And I said this in my mentorship to my students.
I said, listen.
One of the best things you can do is create another stream of income.
And I gave them permission that, hey, look, if you want to go out and live stream, not teach, that was one of the mentorship.
Go out and show on a live stream and monetize it.
That your development is here.
Here's what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to be profitable and I'm going to trade a 4x market or I'm going to trade.
Or whatever does some of them trade crypto.
I don't like crypto, but it is really good.
By the way, do you hear about crypto or Trump came out and said he was going to make America like the hubs for Bitcoin and all of a sudden, Bitcoin fell out of bed.
That's interesting, isn't it?
But anyway, I encourage my students to live stream to get a second year income because that passive secondary income is going to be a good thing.
A very good way to drive today from the
You need to be perfect in your trades, which is absolutely toxic.
Absolutely toxic.
You cannot have that mindset as a trader.
You can't do that.
You have to invite the opportunity for you to be wrong.
And it doesn't sound productive.
It sounds counterintuitive to say, okay, I invite myself to be incorrect about what my assumptions are about the price action right now.
And when I go into a trade, as soon as you enter that trade, you've completely given the responsibility of the outcome to the market.
You don't have any assuredy that your stock loss is going to get you out at that price.
You don't have that promise that guarantee.
The market could have, especially in the conditions we have right now, where a bomb, a work and breakout in an undisclosed location, boom, unexpected events, bang.
You have a huge gap.
And it could gap way beyond where your stock off is. And guess what, folks, that risk is always there.
That's why every brokerage firm makes you sign these risk disclosures because that's what can happen.
And when it happens, you want to sue the brokerage company. You want to sue this one and sue that one because
it's not expected to happen.
And for individuals that trade with extreme leverage, that would never do that with a real account, but they'll do it with their funded account because all they got to do is pay to reset.
Or they get free free resets because they're having an affiliate program with one of these companies.
It kind of promotes the wrong, wrong idea.
Okay, it doesn't matter how many times you can show that you did something right here.
But you're constantly restarting these new accounts.
If you're an influencer and you keep doing that, you're actually having a detrimental impact on your viewership because knowing that people have selected visions and suck at hearing, they're attracted to women's right and when it makes money.
So therefore, I want to be like this person because look what they just made.
But if you're not disclosing the entirety behind everything and I just blew 20 bought accounts or I just had to reset 16 accounts because everyone of them just got blew out.
It kind of defeats the whole premise behind what is it you're doing following them except for just entertainment value.
So I'm trying not to be anything but straight nuts and bolts. This is what you're supposed to be focusing on.
But if I don't lay the groundwork initially on the first discussion here in first 20 minutes or so, you won't know what we're doing.
And you'll just be watching for something and anticipating or trying to predict what it is I'm going to say next.
And that's not going to be helpful to you. In fact, it'll probably be very frustrating for you.
And you'll either turn off and go watch the usual suspects on my team, on live streaming.
Or you'll just walk away and you'll do nothing with me.
Maybe you'll come back to this live stream in a later time, but you'll still have this better taste in your mouth and you won't be willing to write down the things I'm talking about and preparing yourself.
You have to absolutely prepare yourself to learn properly.
And if you don't have that mindset going in, everything you do, everything you focus on will be the wrong things.
So, they'll all be doing things that are moving towards consistently profitable.
That's the number one goal, whether it be learning from me or learning from anyone else.
It's not a task that is outside your grasp.
Great now it might be because you're brand new.
But if you do the things that I'm going to suggest to my son and he doesn't rush, he doesn't rush to go and try to pass it.
He doesn't rush to go and try to pass it combined. He doesn't rush to get a payout.
He doesn't try to trade every single fluctuation in price.
He doesn't try to do everything that I've made available to all of you, which is what most of my students try to do.
They all dabble too much.
And if you simply go through this simple question and answer for yourself right now.
Are you someone?
Now if you're not paying attention right now, you're distracted.
You're going to miss it.
But the type of person you are right now, are you someone?
If someone says to you, I don't think this is possible and it doesn't necessarily necessarily be trading.
I don't think this is possible or I don't think you can do that.
Are you someone that says they're probably right?
Or I'm going to show this person they're wrong and I'm going to show them 12 ways that why they're wrong.
And I'm going to do beyond what they thought I said, I was going to do or I could do and they said I couldn't do.
I'm going to do more than that.
Okay, because right now we're going to divide you all as an audience because either you're going to be someone that's going to be influenced and held back by someone else's opinion or suggestion on you.
Or maybe you've watched someone else receive criticism.
Okay, you've watched other people receive criticism and then you somehow latch on to that like it was told to you and you feel emotional about it and you have a psychological response and it was never directed to you but you personify it and personalize it to yourself.
That's very telling.
That is a barrier for you as a trader.
You may not realize it right now, but Friday I'm going to cover the contrast of all that.
You may not know the answers to these things right now today because you want to think about what I'm going to tell you and you all want to be able to say, yeah, I want to be the guy or cow that says, if you can't do this, I'm going to prove it to him and I'm going to do this and do that.
Chances are every male listening is probably going to be wanting to do that.
But in honesty, all of you aren't really like that.
You're influenced by other people's opinion and it makes you feel unsure about yourself.
It may be causing anxiety, it may feel embarrassment, you may feel like you don't feel like you're going to do well because of someone else's opinion about you.
You have that spark, the inspiration that, well, kicking the hinder parts, if you will, to now do something because it's a challenge that's been laid in your hands.
Like, now, this is what it's like for me when I listen to other people.
When they say, this can't be done or no one can do that, I am the person, my personality is you tell me that that can't be done for the other person.
Or that I can't do something.
I immediately, my mind immediately switches on, I'm in creditor mode.
Like, I'm in there looking for every way to come back at them and say, this is how you're wrong.
And you're wrong here, and you're wrong here, and you're wrong there, and you're wrong there, here, there, everywhere.
And I want to bury them in it.
That's my mentality.
And that's not a strength.
That's just how I interact with outside influences.
And that stems from a childhood that I had no control over the factors and environments that I was left in, which were dangerous when they were hostile.
So as an adult, now I seek control all the time.
I am a control freak. Everything and every aspect of my life, I have to have control over it.
If I don't have any control over it, I have no interest in it.
That's my disposition. That's how I am.
You may not be that way. You may be very, very passive.
And you may be very lethargic in terms of responding to things that are met as a challenge towards you.
And you may be using that very perception about the marketplace, and that's your hindrance.
That's the barrier that you have to put together.
If you have that mentality, you're going to have to break through that.
And it's not going to be easy for you.
Because what you're seeing is, most people fail doing this.
Most people are not consistent.
Most people can't even determine where the marks are going to go, let alone get in it without having stopped out or managed risk-appropriate.
That's the majority. That's the truth about this industry.
Very, very, very few people can do this consistently.
And you know this, but you're still willing to watch videos, you're still willing to try to practice and dabble.
Because you're waiting for some kind of magical thing that occur where it just clicks for you.
With no real effort, with no real study, with no real logging and journaling, you think it's going to happen for you.
That's not realistic.
So part of this mentorship will be using the tools and resources of journaling properly.
But what is it you're supposed to be journaling anyway?
If you don't know what you're doing, you don't know where the markets are going to go next.
Because you don't know bias, you don't know profiling, you don't know session characteristics, day of week characteristics, seasonal tendencies, all those things.
I'm going to present it in a nice, neat little package.
But it cannot be done in one video.
I don't care how many people go on YouTube and try to say, I've watched all of those YouTube videos and I'm going to show you in five minutes.
You can do it. You want to do that.
I promise you.
Here it is.
$500,000.
Go out there.
You don't know what you're doing right now.
Go out there and watch the one in the five-minute trainer YouTubers.
You can go to the website, the website, the website, the website, the website, the website, the website.
And you've got four weeks to pass a combine and make $100,000 in the year.
If you can prove that, I will give you $500,000.
I will drive to your place and you can live stream be given you a $500,000 bank check.
That stuff doesn't work, folks.
You're going to have to put some real effort into it.
You can't condense it.
You can't reduce it down.
A lot of people don't realize it.
What I just did, I just made a lot of those guys mad and now they're going to do the little micro-mentor shifts.
And really what that does is going to bring more traction back to this mentorship because they're going to work for free.
But anyway, see that?
Everything's predetermined.
He's maniacal.
He's a mastermind.
He's not a volatile.
Anyway, the very first step is for you to determine where you are mentally and then determine ahead of time,
preparing yourself what adversity you're going to be in front of you.
For the folks that are saying, okay, you say, I can't do this or someone else is saying that you can't do this,
you're going to go out of the 100 mile net.
That's good that you have confidence in yourself.
But the problem is you're going to overstep that and become overconfident.
And then as soon as you're met with that first adversity, it's going to really hold you down.
And it's going to cause you to second guess the next step of stepping out there and faith in determining what it is that you're trying to do or practicing.
And then what you end up doing is the initial strength is I'm strong, I'm confident, and nobody's going to tell me I can't do it.
I'm going to do it better than I would have done it if I would just invite you to do it casually.
But now because they said I couldn't do it, I'm going to do a superhuman Olympic feat of it.
And by doing that, what you end up doing is you increase the level of adversity, the difficulty, you put a time limit on it, which is the worst thing in the world to do,
you absolutely put a time limit on how fast you should learn how to do something.
As soon as someone starts telling you, I'm going to teach you how to do ICT or anything else in this number of days.
Absolutely, I promise you, they are full of grade A manure.
They're lying to you. That's clicks for money.
They want you to either buy something they're going to upsell to you later on, or they want you to keep watching their videos that are not going to help you.
They may be entertaining, but they're not going to supercharge your understanding.
They're not going to make you faster at learning it, okay?
The only thing they're doing is trying to capitalize on a market that's huge right now, which is TikTok mentality.
Ten seconds, fifteen seconds, thirty seconds, time span of attention span.
And I have no patience for anyone.
Zero patience for anyone as a student that thinks like that.
I broom them quickly.
I get them out of my face. I don't want to have any interaction with them because you're absolutely lazy.
You're absolutely lazy.
You want it easy.
You want it real fast and you have unrealistic expectations.
And anyone that has common sense will tell you that that is someone that will not be successful.
Period and the story.
If you don't want to warrant the idea to have to do this properly and understand, really understand, that's what mentorship is, understanding how you're going to most likely interact with the marketplace.
What's a reasonable response to you for you feeling this way or that way should the market produce an outcome that was either favorable or not favorable.
How are you going to interact with this?
Say the first time you sit down and you try to test something and it takes off and runs like 150 handles in the NASDAQ.
What's that going to feel like for you?
You're going to feel ecstatic.
You're going to be excited and you're going to feel like, wow, this is a whole lot easier than I thought.
And that's wrong.
But see, that's the problem with these twenty-year-olds that teach.
They want you to have the emotional stimuli because that emotional stimuli gives you a rush.
It's still the meaning.
It gives you that physical feel-good butterfly moment that does not last.
It will not last.
Ten minutes later, you're not buzzing by that right call that you made, that demo trade that you made, or that you just passed your combine.
You all think that I got to get my combine passed and then I can start trading on the account where I can make profitable trades.
So you're willing to do everything and anything, just the gamble to get it passed.
And then once you get there, you think it's going to be easy when it becomes extremely much more difficult because now you don't want to lose that past funded account.
And every candlestick looks like a foreign language to you.
Even if you understand certain elements of reading price action, it will look completely different.
You won't feel comfortable pushing a button because now you're thinking, if I get in right here, what if it goes down to here?
Or what if it goes to this high here?
Where do I put my stock loss?
I don't want to get stopped out.
But I got to use a stock.
And see, what are you doing?
You're trying to protect yourself from a losing trade because that losing trade, even if it's small in denomination, if it's small in amount of really in dollar risk.
The last thing impact and the depth of how far it digs into your backside, it's monstrous because you're creating a demon.
You're manifesting your worst adversary because you didn't do everything that I'm suggesting as a starting play right now.
It prepares you for this.
What do you think basic training is for when people go to the military?
It's to get the person physically fit, get them introduced to constant disruption, constant mental fatigue, so that way they're not shell-shocked and they get out on the battlefield and freeze up.
They're used to being treated like trash, worked out, fatigued, run them, work them hard, talk down to them.
There's no hope.
There's no hope while you're in basic training.
Well, this is what this is like here.
This is basic training.
I'm not going to sugarcoat it for you millennials.
I'm not going to be nice to you and say, honey, it's going to be okay.
Let me hold you close.
I see he's got you, baby.
I see he's got you.
It's okay.
I'm not what this is.
You want to learn how to trade?
You want to be consistently profitable?
I see he's not going to be rubbing your shoulders for you and powdering your ass when the market's in front of you and you're ready to take a trade.
It's all on you.
I'm not going to be there.
You have to be able to do this on your own.
You have to be able to do this absolutely isolated.
You have to be an island unto yourself.
When everybody else is on social media saying they want to do one thing or the other, and you look at your model saying, I don't see that, you've got to be completely comfortable.
You've got to be completely comfortable with that.
Not for the basis of simply being a contrarian alone, but for the basis of, okay, I understand what I'm looking for.
And this is just further confirmation that the herd of sheep out there are expecting this.
So I know I have a lead-pike sense trade now because every time Dick and Harry out there is wanting the market to go to this level or this direction.
And here I am sitting confidently waiting for a setup that's completely diametrically opposed to what they expect.
That's one of the things that I take great comfort in watching live streamers because sometimes they get it right and that's fun.
Most of the time they aren't.
And the times that I'm looking for something before I even start looking at their live stream, if it's opposed to what I'm expecting, it's a dead deal.
It's over.
I know I'm over the target.
I know I'm right.
And that's not the goal here, but I know I'm going to use the maximum leverage.
So whatever my maximum leverage would be for that individual asset class or that market, I'd be comfortable doing that.
But initially when you first want to do this, you want to be trading.
Listen folks, I know this is going to be unpopular, but you want to be trading with a microbe.
Just because that funded account says I can trade five contracts of the NASA with $3,000 of a cushion.
I want you to hear this.
Okay.
And I mean this sincerely and I'm not trying to be funny about it.
But if you're trading more than one contract.
Of a micro with 3000.
Cushing and you're not consistent and crossbow and you don't know what you're doing.
You're absolutely gambling and gamblers don't last long.
You can gamble.
There's a lot of people over the years with all these funded account companies.
I've had students that's done this too.
Paid mentorship students that have gone through it.
They passed combines.
They got paid out.
And then they lost it.
And then it completely undid them and they can't get it back and they can't you can't pass another combine.
What would happen?
The concept stopped working.
Did they change the algorithm?
No.
Now they have mental baggage.
They have scar tissue.
And now the lessons I taught in those Twitter spaces over the past couple years.
And now I'm not on Twitter.
The depth of where I was trying to take you.
A lot of you haven't gone to those places yet in your trading.
So the lessons is what right of your head.
It doesn't apply to me.
But for anyone that has actually tried to trade with real money or had a live account or a funded account and has taken withdrawals from the marketplace.
And then they lost it.
Now those Twitter spaces.
Now those talking points.
Those lectures like we're doing right here.
They are much more meaningful and they're impactful and they are helpful.
But we have a millennial that wants to go ahead and sit.
Look man, this guy's full of crap.
You know he's talking too much.
He ain't done anything.
He ain't pushing any buttons.
How am I going to learn from somebody like that?
I need somebody who's going to show me what to do.
So I can copy them.
That's me learning.
No, that's not you learning.
That's how you grow codependent.
And I don't want any of you to be codependent.
You know, I'm going to be able to walk out there and say this is what I see potentially unfolding in the marketplace today.
So I'm going to build an idea on how the market may in fact set this up.
And if I understand that this is where it's likely to go and not what I mean by that is where's the drone liquidity.
Where's the market likely to go?
You know, what are we looking for in terms of potential expectations and where the market could trade to.
And that could be something like this.
We go to.
We have relative equal highs right here.
Okay.
Very simple, smooth price level.
The market's gone down a lot.
Several thousand handles.
Okay.
We have a huge gap.
New week opening gap here.
So where we settled on Friday and where we opened on Sunday, it's just five last night.
Eastern time in the States.
That new week opening gap.
That's a draw on liquidity.
But we don't need it to trade all the way up to there.
So where is the low hanging fruit objectives for just short term bites.
This is what I'm teaching you, Caleb, initially.
I want you to think about where the market could draw to right now where to go to next.
And what that does is it gives you something to focus on.
And it also gives you a way of measuring.
Every individual candles formation and what your expectation is as it's forming and what the next candles should do and how they behave and what it feels like for you when you do this.
Because whether you want to admit it or not.
When you're first starting.
The majority of your time is going to be spent in uncertainty.
In times of confusion.
It's going to be fearful.
It's going to be.
Well, it's going to feel very.
Anxious.
You'll feel anxious.
You may even start feeling body symptoms of tingling this lightheadedness.
So you're going to get sick.
And you may still only be a demo because what you're doing is you're elevating the outcome to a level that is not expected.
You don't need to put that much pressure on you.
In fact, if that's how you're thinking.
It's normal for you to feel that when you first start trading with a real account.
That's a normal thing, but there's no way around it.
There's no way around that first trade with real money.
That fear and anxiety is something you just have to engage in.
And that's why I say, you get a lot of count.
First thing you should do is flip a quarter.
Lowest leverage.
If it's tails, you buy it.
If it's heads, you sell short.
It will vice versa.
You can do the smallest leverage and put a 15 point stop on it.
And just let it happen to you.
And get it and break the ice and let it go.
But see a lot of you, if not all of you, you want your first trade to be a winner.
Because you think it's a jinx.
It's somehow an invitation for failure.
If your first trade with your real account loses money.
But that's somehow defines your entire career.
It doesn't.
It's just one transaction.
But the way you overcome that is spending time without pushing a button,
studying where price can go, and that's this.
You have the short term here.
Post 830.
Meaning after we have 830.
Right here we have 836.
So the market went below these relatively full lows.
So any liquidity below that, they disrupted that.
And then took it above this short term high.
Took it above this short term high and traded right inside this.
Here they got rated.
So when you're watching price Caleb, you're looking for how the market maneuvers and trades
and books between obvious price levels with old highs, old lows, and inefficiencies.
They're the only two things you're worried about.
You're not trying to predict the direction of the day.
You're not trying to be right about 50 handle runs.
You're just studying, observing.
Okay.
This down close candle here after taking out the liquidity and then we have displacement here.
Displacement is where the market runs against a.
Pre session pre day pre.
Trend or price swing direction.
It's a counter move to what's already been in place.
So the market's dropped here and then we move aggressively above the short term.
This high being traded above there.
We go back down to this down close candle.
That down close candle is a order block.
We have displacement.
It took liquidity and the market has been one directional.
Now what makes that a order block specifically is that it has happened.
Now it could have formed right at eight thirty.
Because eight thirty the algorithm will start spooling for liquidity or inefficiencies.
One or the other.
Now in the beginning you're going to want to know you're probably asking right now.
Can you just tell us when it's going to reach for it?
Is it going to go for an old high or old low?
What's going to go for a fair guy you got above or below?
Both.
It's going to go for both.
Does that complicate it?
No.
Now to further strip away the complication you're adding to it right now.
You're bringing all these things.
But what if the COT?
I didn't say anything about a COT.
Yeah but what happens if the.
Did I say anything about those things that you're thinking right now?
No.
They're not important.
The only thing we're doing is we're sitting down.
At a time.
A time when the market is predisposed.
That means it's most likely going to do this.
And it will do it unless some unexpected event.
Where manual intervention steps in and you don't know and I don't know when that's going to happen.
What does it look like when the market just starts going.
It starts going one direction and it doesn't stop.
It doesn't go up a little bit.
Come back a little bit.
Come back a little.
That's that's market standard delivery.
So what intervention is think like F. L. M. C. think like CPI.
Think like non-farm payroll.
Where if you're wrong.
If you're offside right when it hits the market.
You're dead.
That's what manual intervention looks like.
There are many times.
Untradable.
It takes off so fast.
You reasonably.
No, not reasonably.
It's unreasonable for you to assume that you can trade that once it starts.
Because you're literally chasing the wind and you're never going to catch it.
You're just going to frustrate yourself and get placed very poorly.
And you're going to be in a trade that's going to be highly anxious and stressful.
And that's not trading.
That's gambling.
So when we look at individual sit-ups like this.
You want to sit down in front of the marketplace.
Right before 8.30.
Okay.
Preferably eight o'clock.
And you want to look at where the highs and the lows are.
In in deference to the one minute chart in the 15 minute time.
So we'll change this chart.
So here's a 15 minute looks like.
And if you look at where we came from.
See this high.
It's seven o'clock in the morning.
That's this high right there.
See it on the right chart.
So this chart is larger chart here is the one minute.
And this is the 15 minute time frame.
15.
Five.
One minute.
Those are your first three time frames to worry about.
Okay.
I shouldn't say worried for the count of usually subconscious concern that you need to worry about it.
You don't need to worry about it.
But the levels and inefficiencies on the 15 minute time frame.
the five minutes frame.
And the women's.
I think.
If you're brand new.
You don't know how to trade ISP.
You don't have trade price action.
You don't have trade period, okay.
You don't need any other time frame.
Okay.
You don't need anything else.
You don't need a daily chart.
You don't need a heavy chart.
You don't need a 31 minute chart.
You don't need a 17 minute chart.
You don't need a 15 second.
You don't need anything below.
One minute chart.
You don't need anything else to do what I'm going to teach you.
Okay.
This is what you're doing.
You're studying price at specific times of the day.
If you're not writing this part down, you're blowing it already.
So between 8 o'clock and 830 in the morning, New York local time for Eastern Standard Time in the US.
Everything I mentioned in terms of time, if it's the time, that matches New York local time.
So at 8 o'clock, if you have your smartphone, there's a way that you can pull up world time and put one in there for New York.
And you'll always know what time ICT is saying to look for these things to happen, because they're never going to not be there.
Write that down again, okay, and underline it.
This is always, absolutely, without fail, it's never not going to do it.
It's always every single F&A, it's going to do this very thing.
It's going to do it.
It's going to absolutely do it, because there is an algorithm, and it does this to spur on emotional interest or tangible orders that are actually sitting out there.
Real orders that are sitting above and below or inside of inefficiencies where the market needs to offer fair value to the marketplace.
So, what is it reaching for? It's reaching for old highs, old lows, and inefficiencies.
That's the fair value gap.
It's the VICI, that thing.
So, once we know that the market is likely to do these things, that's a characteristic.
It's an algorithmic characteristic.
You don't need anything else besides this element as the foundation to what you're trying to trade.
And you can make all the money you'd ever want.
I'm going to say that again, in case you missed it.
You're trying to find, right now, you want the daily bias, and you want to be able to buy below the open hole for the whole entire day.
But are you really doing those things when you try to trade?
No.
As soon as you get 10 handles, or 10 pips, or whatever, you start struggling with holding onto the trade.
You're paranoid that that winning trade that you just found out, just fell into your lap.
Oh my goodness, I'm winning.
This is something new.
I need to secure this.
But then you're thinking, oh wait a minute, I'll just be holding for the daily range.
And then you're wrestling.
And that becomes a real hard wrestling match, doesn't it?
It makes you feel nauseous.
And if anybody tries to talk to you, even if they love you, your spouse, your girlfriend, your boyfriend, your child, your dog comes over and nuzzles up next to you,
any other time you're like, oh, this time, get away from me.
Can't you see I'm trying to worry about this 10 pips handle move?
The weight of the world is on my shoulders right now, and you're coming at me with this?
You know what it means?
You're stressing out.
Why?
Why would you have that response?
Folks, this means that happens like, oh no, this guy.
You're awake now, aren't you?
But that's the reality.
That's what it's like.
And you'll feel it if you've never been there, you'll feel it.
But the reason why you feel that is because you don't know what you're doing.
You haven't done this part long enough where you're completely desensitized to, okay, I'm doing this exercise to get comfortable with anticipating price moves.
I'm getting comfortable with not knowing what it's going to do next candle, this candle, five candles from now.
But I think it's going to draw to specific price levels.
So I bet clear as that short term, what we talked about, what's it going to reach into?
You have this inefficiency here.
How long does it take to do that?
And then you record, you screenshot this and you say, okay, what took one, two, three, four, five, six candles from this volume imbalance to run above this short term high and get into this city, which is a sales item balance.
A fair value gap that has a down close is a city.
A fair value gap that has a up close is a busy, by side of the millisiles on your business.
So what you're doing is you're measuring because you have zero baseline experience, you have no continuity in what is you're reaching for looking for in price action.
And you study how long it took and you record that many, this many minutes.
And you also are honestly going to record in your journal with the screenshot like maybe over here or somewhere over here.
You're going to record what it felt for you physically.
Were you anxious?
Did you second guess it was going to run there?
Did you feel excited the entire time?
Were you impatient that you thought it should have moved there sooner and faster?
Did certain candle formations cause you to doubt it?
Did you have a point at which you thought that it was given another opportunity to trade to,
or not trade to, but offer another entry like to say for instance, if you want to hear me.
Pure emitting should not be part of your repertoire yet.
That's something that you need to be doing maybe a year after trading with one contract.
Oh, come on.
You want to learn how to do it correctly.
This is the way you do it.
There's all kinds of time and opportunity for pyramid and trades, but you first have to get good at trading with one micro contract.
One micro contract.
Because what that does is it removes, hopefully, this is the only thing you can do to end off the greed and fear.
You can't blow the account if you trade with one micro.
And you only take one trade of that.
It's physically impossible for you to go out there on day one and blow the account.
See, that's what your subconscious is fearful of.
I don't want to blow the account.
I don't want to have a big losing trade.
I don't want to go into big drawdown.
Okay, that's easy.
Don't overlap your account and don't take more than one trade a day.
But I see tea, but I see tea nothing.
If you want to be able to do it correctly, you have to do things with a process.
There has to be a logic behind it.
There has to be some measure of rule based thinking and then you have to adhere to that.
If you don't want to adhere to rules, I promise you, you're going to lose, you're going to fail, and you're going to blame me.
You're going to blame everybody else.
You're going to blame the prop firm.
You're going to blame the brokerage firm.
You're going to blame everything but you.
I know this because I did the same thing as a 20 year old.
I did the same thing numerous times.
I have students that repeat the same thing.
They sent me eight mail years ago.
Oh, you didn't teach me right.
This blah, blah, blah.
And then later on, they went through it properly and then they sent me emails of college.
I did a mistake on my part.
I did listen.
I went back and re listened to it all.
And I made all the mistakes you said I was going to make.
If I didn't listen and just plunged ahead and did what I wanted to do.
Now I did it the right way.
I listened to what you were expecting in terms of.
A properly mindset student.
That follows the rules and accepts the diversity's initially.
They're normal.
They're all normal growing things.
But see, you're trying to be the exception.
You don't want it to happen to you.
You think it's going to be candy bars and milkshakes and everything sweet and lovely and butterflies are going to come land on the hand and everything.
It's come by.
No.
No, no, no, no, no.
As soon as you push the button, you're asking the shark to take a leg off.
You're asking that lion to take your face off.
You're inviting it.
That's what it is.
As soon as you enter these markets, you've entered the jungle.
You've entered the deep waters.
And honey, everybody's hungry.
And if you offer it up on a silver platter, they're going to get it.
And you can't be upset about it.
That's the currency here.
Yours are mine.
Mine are yours.
That's it.
It doesn't matter how anybody else trades.
It's are you liquidity right now?
Are you liquidity?
Because if you're liquidity, you're lunch.
I go in and I'm going to go in and get a little bit of money.
I'm looking for liquidity.
I'm looking for the liquidity.
I'm looking for reasons why the market will trade to this level.
Why it could potentially trade to this level.
But I don't need it to trade, for instance.
This is the draw on liquidity.
Draw on liquidity is just a initial reasonable assumption on our part to make sure that
the market is not going to be the same.
It is just a initial reasonable assumption on our part to determine a directional move
that could unfold.
It does not mean and it does not define the absolute terminus to a price run or the
be all end all target.
And playing returns.
The market's probably going to keep moving until it gets to this level.
It doesn't mean it can't have retracement lower.
It doesn't mean it can't make a lower low than it's done here.
Highly unlikely.
But it's still an initial idea.
So when you're first trying to learn how to read these markets, when you're first trying
to determine where the market's likely to go, you have to strip away everything that you're
trying to force into reading every single individual candlestick.
And if you watch a lot of my videos or if you have a lot of notes or you've dabbled in
it, chances are you probably already have a pet technique that you want to be yours.
And you may not even be good at using it yet, but you just want it because it has a cool
name, like a Reaper Fair Value Guy.
When I talk that to my private mentorship, they're like, oh man, that's going to be my thing.
That's going to be it for me.
Or Event Horizon, which is the midpoint between two new opening gaps or new date opening gaps.
And because of the names, okay, these names are meaningful to me.
They're not meant to inspire you to want to view them over another.
That's what I mean.
I got 81 of these things.
So it's a way for me to keep track of what its purpose was.
Or it kind of puts a little stamp of when I discovered it and something had an impact on
it.
It was a cool name or inspiration to it.
So when we're looking at price as you as a brand new student not knowing what to do,
you want to make this kind of like a game and a discovery.
Something fun, not a video game, okay, but it's a game of determining does it have what it
takes to move to these highs here.
A way of saying to yourself that's very disarming.
It's okay.
I see how this is smooth.
These two highs are relatively equal.
That looks like a real nice obvious flat space in price.
We don't see that same flatness down here.
You see that?
So in other words, if you had a shark, you know, if you had two sharks out of it, you have
two sharks in front of you.
One has had its teeth removed.
Well, that would be represented something like this.
This is the shark with no teeth.
It's basically got guns, okay?
There's no teeth there.
Down here, there has been a shark attack.
How do we know that?
Because we can see the wounds from the teeth.
The jaggedness.
The jaggedness.
The jaggedness.
And now it's gone to another free, to another frenzy or feeding.
Where is that?
Well, we've just created one.
We have this high here that's really close to this one.
You see that?
So you observe price action and you're looking for areas that look real smooth and safe.
Where they say peace and safety, sudden destruction comes upon them.
Any time that you're looking at price action, it doesn't matter what time frame you're looking at.
If you're looking at it through the lens of a second chart sub one minute or a weekly chart or monthly chart or quarterly chart where it's three months of data compressed into making candlesticks.
It does not matter.
This principle is always true.
The market will go to an area of smoothness for the purpose of disrupting any orders that will be resting above or below it.
We've already mentioned down here.
Now, don't be discouraged.
If you can't watch this stuff real time and see it or outline it in advance.
It's okay for you to come home for work.
And look at your chart after the fact and go back and look at this and study it as if.
You have obviously the benefit of hindsight initially, but you don't want to stay in that very long.
So you're going to have to procure yourself some instruments that allow you to watch price action, not with market replay.
Look, I am not a fan of market replay.
I absolutely load it.
I hate it.
I can't stand it.
And I wish it wasn't available.
That's that I wish it wasn't even available to anyone else.
Because it's a crutch that allows frauds to be able to sound like they're smart and teach something because it's already happened.
If you can do it over life price action, not just once in a while, but continuously, and your audience or viewership can see this,
then you have earned the right to have a voice.
And then people should have no problems sitting and listening to you lecture and talk about what you think is likely to occur.
Because you have a sound basis or foundation to what it is that you're talking about.
And therefore, because you have a track record being able to talk about before it happens, it removes the anxiety that is reasonable for everyone to have when they persevere.
But when you as the student, and you don't have the ability to watch it live, because you have a job or you're in university or you sleep.
Like you have to sleep, right?
And your place in the world and your general geographic location may not be conducive for you to trade at 830 in a more near for a time.
You may have to trade in your London session.
And yes, Virginia.
I will be up during the London session doing one of these or two of these lectures in a week or two.
So we're not focusing on one specific time of day.
And I'll come back to that section where I was something like that in a time of day.
But when we're looking at it, initially, you don't have to see this real time to get a collection of screenshots for your journal.
That if you don't do this in journal and screenshot and annotate your chart and study how long price runs took place, how many candles did it take to move there?
Was there any kind of formation in the price delivery that would have caused you to not trust it unfolding?
Now, that's going to be very hard for you to do because initially, it's just the men.
They're always going to say, no, I would have never second guessed it.
It would have been easy for me to hold on to that.
And the same people want to get into a trade if they're able to do it in front of you.
They don't have any conviction and they're going to fail out on the trade.
Okay, I got to get out.
It's a can't stand the pressure.
It's moved by the end of the spring.
But they call 30 handles or 50 handles above or below and they get out of 5 hands because the pressure of it not dealing with the expected of it.
And then realizing a loss in front of someone, that's a lot more pressure for them.
And they don't want to have that.
So what's more important, their image or then following a model that they have seen works and have trusted and did the back testing and they have the data behind it, their image.
And that's not someone you still learn from.
I'm just tossing that out.
So what we're looking for always the first thing that you're looking for Caleb is where is the market smooth on the 15 to 5 and then 1 minute chart.
Is that complicated?
Nope, it's not complicated at all.
It's real simple.
What does it look like to be smooth?
When you have price levels that create highs like this swing high here and this swing high here.
They're real close to one another.
See that?
When you're looking for relative equal highs, here's your secret weapon for it.
How do you know it's a high probability relative equal high that's likely to get swept or traded through?
How do you know that ICT?
What differentiates that from any other?
It's this.
If you have two swing highs, if the one to the left is slightly higher than the right, you have a very, very high probability that they're going to want to take it above there.
Just like you see here.
We have a high and then the swing here happens to be just a little bit lower than that.
Here's what's going on.
This is called priming.
Priming is where you continuously create, inspire or manipulate the expectations of a large number of investors.
They think, oh, it's going to go through that high, but then there's a lot of folks that don't want to see it go there because they went short.
So when the market goes up here and stops and turns down, what that does is it creates a sympathetic song.
The shorts are relaxing.
If the shorts are relaxing, what are they saying?
They're saying that this is now what?
Resistance.
So anyone that takes a new short position, where are they going to think that the safest place to put their stop-offs is going to be right above these highs?
Why can we trust that they're likely to take that relative equal high up?
Not that it will that session that you're trading, but it's high probability that this will be swept.
When the second or the one to the right, that swing high is lower than the one to the left that frames these two as relatively equal.
Same thing is occurring here.
We have this high here, this high here.
This one being slightly lower than that one.
So when the market went up like this and we had this drop down, what that causes is a sympathetic song.
What is that causing people?
Anyone that went short here, they feel like, okay, that's scary because it almost went that high where their stop-offs would be if they're trying to go short in this area.
See that?
So what do you think it looks like when we have relative equal lows?
What would be a high probability relative equal low that the market is likely to draw down and go below?
It would be a low.
That has a slightly higher low.
In common terms, it's referred as a failure swing.
So a failure swing, now I feel like, oh, see, he's reinventing.
See, you're trying to trade that.
That's what a failure swing is.
You're trying to trade long or short on that second pass that doesn't take out the low or take out a previous high.
That's selling short a failure swing.
What I'm teaching you is how to identify in price action where the algorithm will refer back to and why.
What are the central tenets as to what the algorithm is referring to at a specific time of day, most important, and then it refers back to these because, okay, it sees this high based on time, and in the higher prior to that one is here.
So it's very simple for the algorithm to call that information as an array.
It's okay, this high was at this time, and this high was higher than prior to it, and they're in close proximity.
What's the filter?
I'm not going to tell you that, but it's not very much in terms of difference between the price.
And when you have that element, the market will invariably start marching back to those levels.
It does not matter.
It doesn't matter.
It does not matter.
How many buyers are buying the market to go up there, and how many short sellers?
Okay.
The proof of it is, is just look at a depth of market.
Look at a ladder.
Okay, a dome, not a dome.
Okay.
I'm so tired of hearing people.
It's not a dome.
Do you see an E at the end of that?
It's D-O-N.
It's a dome.
Okay.
Depth of market.
Look at those orders.
There's no imbalances there.
There's no imbalances.
There's just as many short orders below the market as there is above.
But yet the market will still march and march and march and march and go to the B of the drum that I tell you it does.
It reaches to these levels because it's coded to do this.
And if you do this for a couple weeks, you're going to see, oh wow, yeah, this feels artificial.
It feels like it's designed to do these types of things because it tends to repeat.
Every single day, specific kinds of day, it will do this.
And I only go back to the times I want to.
Every day between eight o'clock in the morning, it's always New York local time.
So it's very important to remember that.
You have new people coming all the time.
And I'll say, I looked at this chart here and you told me, yeah, but you're looking at it in Bangladesh time.
Okay.
I don't live in Bangladesh.
I'm in the east coast of the United States.
And the algorithm is on New York local time.
I don't care what anybody else tells you.
Okay.
That's what it's on.
Period.
And the story, you can wrestle with it if you want, but that's just the way it is.
Between eight o'clock in eight, 30 in the morning, you want to sit down and determine where are the smooth locations and price action on the 15 minute.
The five minute in the one minute.
Okay.
We've had the 15 and a month.
Let's go down to the five.
So right away, you can see that this high here is relative to that one.
And this one here also with that.
This one being slightly higher than that one.
So there's a lot of liquidity that's sitting at 17,820.75.
Now, real important.
It does not mean that it has to happen during that session.
It does not mean that.
And that is the underlying risk that you assume everything in time you take a trade.
You're looking for things that are going to stack the odds of probability in your favor.
It does not mean it's an absolute guaranteed outcome.
See, I have students that literally take the time and waste their time and writing me an email.
Sometimes they're like novels or novellas.
And usually it's like three paragraphs of Congratulating me and worship and whatever.
And I don't like that.
And usually when I get that kind of stuff, I immediately just push the email away.
I don't want you looking up to me.
I don't want you worshiping me.
I'm not the greatest of all time.
I'm not the best.
I'm not none of those things.
I'm just a guy who has a whole bunch of information and experience.
And I want to share it with you.
And I want to see what you do with it.
But these individuals will say, you know, I need you to tell me how to make sure that I don't
have this wrong.
I only want to take this pattern.
So how do I avoid taking losing trades with an inversion fair bag for a mitigation block
or the breaker?
How do I know if it's a breaker or if it's a shift in market structure?
Well, that's easy.
You have to have a higher time frame premise and the directional draw where the market's
going to go.
And if you think it's going to go higher, when you see the market creating,
a short term term, well, I'll give you an example here.
We have the relative equal lows here and the market drops.
You see that?
So this drop down here, every up close candle on this time frame, all of this right here,
that is your breaker.
The most sensitive candle or range is going to be the last up close candle.
Look at it like this.
That's this range low.
You can see what the body stops right there.
We went through it.
I'm not denying that.
But the damage is always done by the way.
And the range high there.
That is your bullish breaker.
But the range here from that up close candle that starts all these consecutive up close
candles, all of that is technically the bullish breaker.
So the most sensitivity is going to be seen in that last up close candle.
That is not supplying demand.
That's not that's not supplying demand zone.
Same side would never ever ever refer to what I just said.
Never he would never do that.
And he would never consider that anyway because we're cutting through candles because we're
looking at what an algorithm is doing.
Not some for trader ticket runners perception of something that doesn't really exist.
So the turn here at the bodies, that tells you what.
How's your the narrative?
So what is it going to do?
It's going to go higher.
Okay.
So what at that time would you focus on?
Well, you have this short term high here.
The inefficiency that's traded to you there.
We want to see it trade above it and then act as what?
Support.
What in the version of your baguette?
To do that, what would it reach for next?
This high and this inefficiency.
Does it do that?
Yes.
What are the bodies doing?
Stopping just at that same level here and more specifically in my eyes didn't.
No, this is not what I put up there.
You see that little separation?
That's a volume imbalance.
Go back and listen to the other lectures.
You have to include that volume imbalance when you have to feel like that.
So that's where the body is going to be.
See the bodies being encapsulated by that.
And now the mother trades back up into that the bodies.
I'm sorry, the bodies, candle sticks are trading inside it in efficiency.
It wicks above it, but look for the bodies to stop and look for the bodies are here.
Where's the put of the up?
The low here.
Nothing in here.
This is all very balanced price-related.
So this back and forth, every other candle is overlapping the highest high and the lowest
low, pretty much coloring it.
Very, very good.
Back and forth.
All this price is back and forth versus then we have all these runs where we have separations
in here.
Back down into that breaker.
This response right here to what it's just done there.
That expectation and response in how price can react to levels like that.
That's a nice little scalp right there.
I mean, look at it.
It moved from 5.15 to what?
5.96.
That's a good run.
You can't get 20 handles out of that.
Want a 15 second chart?
You can if you know what you're looking for.
Now also notice that we've created again.
High, lower high.
High, lower high.
But real close to one another.
When did it form?
Prior to 9.30.
So we have 8 to 8.30 and then you study 9 to 9.30 because it's going to do what?
It's going to look and see the liquidity or inefficiencies.
So here's 9.30.
There.
Forming on the bullish breaker.
It trades down.
And then we have relative equal highs here.
I don't like to usually do this, but I have to do it.
It's just a discussion.
So we have these relative equal highs.
This high and that high relative equal high.
And we have this area up here.
So if the market's going to do what?
If it's going to make a punishing move towards the shorts.
That want to see it drop.
Because the market has dropped early on 7 o'clock in the morning.
And we have all these very clean levels.
What did we just do here?
We have a low.
It was traded down into.
It disrupted this little area here.
So it's made this area jagged.
And I'm going to say earlier where the market's real smooth over here versus what it was doing down here.
Where has the work done?
Meaning if there is a group of traders that are very cannibalistic and they tend to be more correct than wrong.
Or if they are the ones that generally make the money more consistently than the ones that don't.
In other words, think of like the World Series of Poker.
If you ever watched that.
It's really fascinating to see how the long term players that always find themselves at the final table.
They may not win, but they always find their way at the final table.
That's experience and that skill.
Well, you can see those things in price action.
They're like fingerprints.
You can see when the cannibals come in and they devalue the piggy.
They go in there and just chew them all up.
And it's where the market is made jagged.
Price delivered.
Always.
It's always like this, folks.
It's never not going to be hidden from it.
It's always plain sight.
But see, you're so enamored by animal patterns, harmonic patterns, gimmicky named supposed retail indicators.
Everybody's got a new indicator.
I got one for you that's going to beat all of them.
If the open high low and close and the clock.
How about that?
How about that?
Catch me on the side.
How about that?
It's simple.
And all of you complain.
No, no.
But just the ass has to.
Always complicated.
It's convoluted.
So and so teaches this so much better.
Okay.
I don't see someone so doing anything.
But using market replay.
And trying to convince himself everything he says at the seven.
So we had these relative equal highs sweat here.
See that?
A study for which breaker to there.
So how many candles did it take to do that?
You screenshot it.
How many how many handles did it run from the low to that relative equal high being taken out?
And once it does that, keep the chart active with it on there.
But then just make it very, very light.
Not that way.
Make it light.
So you can still see it.
But it doesn't have all of your focus.
So that way it allows you to focus on like this.
I'll carry that back here.
You trade it down into the gap.
Which is this with here.
Since prices above it.
That makes it to discount.
Array.
Conspot encouragement of that trade.
So you want to see it run above.
This hot here.
Some of you that are trying to learn how to do this.
Or having a blast with this.
Because not only are you doing things to talk about.
In your own journal.
Focus.
But also seeing things unfold over a live chart.
And you're watching on your live chart.
So it's not market replay.
It's not delayed data.
It's not after the fact talking in a narrative over a chart.
Everything that these assets leave comments on.
You can't see it.
There's the relative equal high.
So now same thing here.
That in terms of its importance.
And now you want to see does it have the where we follow to run aggressively for that 17,000,
20,000, 20,000, 75.
Any of this seem complicated for you.
It shouldn't.
I already know what you're thinking.
And some of you said that.
Yes, because you're saying it.
When you talk about it.
It's so obvious.
When you talk about it.
When it's happening.
I can see it.
When you point it out.
I just can't point it out.
When I'm doing it.
Right.
You're just learning it.
You expect to be able to go out there right now.
I'm just going to know how to do it right away because you've watched me just close one or two things and one element in the marketplace.
Now you're selling on that.
Nobody can reasonably expect to be that.
You're placing too much emphasis on being fast.
I got to learn how to do it right now because the market's going to stop working next week, next year.
I thought the algorithm was supposed to stop working this year.
Whatever.
Get out of here.
Get out of here.
The batteries don't run dead on this.
When the markets are dead.
Then the algorithm won't work anymore.
The point is this.
The very, very first thing you're doing as an undeveloped, unrefined trader.
Someone like my son, Caleb.
Don't be offended by that son.
The idea is that you're looking for the smooth animals where the price is so obviously being defended.
And being presented.
And being offered for retail minded trades.
I don't look at charts.
I absolutely don't look at charts.
And think of what retail pattern here I can use to get in sync with the price run.
Look at that beautiful living right there.
That line of bounce.
There.
Inside and calculated in that city.
Went right to the high of that.
Now.
When you're looking at price, you're looking for the obvious very, very, very smooth relative equal highs or relative equal lows.
How do you know which one they're going to go to?
How did they know?
I want to say.
How do you know?
How can you trust?
How do you determine which side of the marketplace it's going to reach for?
Because what this is going to do, it gives you the initial building blocks to understand what's going to do.
To understand bias.
Oh.
Oh, you didn't realize we were going to a digit.
You didn't realize with all this jaw burning and happy quit watching because I was talking about things that wasn't interesting.
But they're coming back to the channel now or later on they'll say.
Oh, it went right the way he said it was going to go.
It did exactly what he said it was going to do again and again and it's going to do it tomorrow and it's going to do it Wednesday and it's going to do it Friday and it's going to do it next week and it's going to do it every freaking week that I want to say I can do it like.
Okay.
That's just the way it works.
That's the way it is.
Because I understand what this thing is doing.
And then you want to screenshot that.
Okay.
So when you're looking at price action.
You want to be able to determine what in this whole scheme of price delivery.
What does it do in terms of resonating with you?
Where would you feel confident?
This is the part that a lot of my students skip over.
They don't do any work with this part of it.
They ignore it.
They assume that it has no bearing on them.
It doesn't have any basis or placement in them.
Okay.
Because they want some kind of gimmicky little one, two, three, get me in the trade.
Where's my stop so to be?
I only want a one handle stop loss like ICP.
I want to be able to do everything perfect.
Right from step one.
I don't want to have any adversities.
That's not realistic.
Because you're going to have a whole lot of adversities and you have to invite that.
Be comfortable with it because that's where it's going to highlight your shortcomings and your understanding.
And it's going to also teach you how to overcome it.
Because once you identify what you're having an issue with.
Wouldn't you want to know what your problems are in your relationship?
If you were married to a new spouse and you genuinely loved them.
But they haven't been forthright in telling you what your character flaws are that really get under their skin.
Because they don't want to offend you because they don't want to hurt your feelings.
But wouldn't you want them sincerely?
Wouldn't you want them to tell you in a way that doesn't hurt you, that doesn't jar you or make you feel offended that you want to go run to the bar and cheat on them?
You would love for them to say, hey, I love you.
I sincerely, sincerely care about you.
I want us to be together.
And that romance is what you want with the marketplace.
You want the market to open its arms and invite you into and embrace and feel its bosom against yours.
And that tenderness, that love, and acceptance that I've always been waiting for you, and finally with me.
And I'm never going to let you go, honey.
I'm never going to let you go.
See, that's what you want.
You want that romance.
But really what this is, this is a dysfunctional element of family.
And what it does is it says, listen, my husband's away.
Come on over to the beds open.
And you want to go over there and romp around, okay, and find a spouse out of that type of thing.
And you wonder why you end up with an STD or a broken home.
That's the way it works.
But see, you think it's a love story.
It's a romance.
It's not.
It's a toxic relationship.
And one person in this relationship has to be able to be reasonable.
And at some point, the person that's reasonable has to say, you know what, this isn't healthy for me anymore.
So that means I have to turn the charts off.
I need to stop following this market on this time tree right now because it's not healthy.
But you can't arrive at that until you do rule-based ideas and you break things down,
modulary, very simplistic.
Nothing that I did today, nothing is complex.
I outlined every single thing, go back and watch the live stream, every single thing was in advance and shown to you on a one minute chart.
This would be further amplified if I was showing it to you on a 15 second chart.
If you have the capabilities, I'm not saying you have to, but if you have the ability to look at a 15 second chart,
study every level I've outlined here and the logic of why it was going to draw up into that 17,8, 20.75 level.
I gave you the bias before we really essentially started today.
I explained to you in very, very bland commentary, how much boring, really.
It didn't seem scientific.
I used analogies that I thought were very simplistic.
You know, when we were looking at areas that are very smooth, contrast this area up here, how that was very, very smooth.
And these many levels over here, those are this one.
In addition, if you weren't looking at that, that's the benefit of looking at three time frames.
Because if you can frame an idea of why the market's likely to draw to a high or a low for inefficiency that is completely visible on three time frames,
that means you have three time frames telling you,
hey, pay attention to me.
And if that time frame or those time frames are in agreement with a relative equal high or an inefficiency above the marketplace,
that means like something like this right here.
Or this right here.
Or this right here.
They're all stepping stones.
Notice that?
They're all stepping stones.
Inside the context in the overall narrative that the market was going to go here.
When I first started the live session, what's the first line I dropped on the chart?
This one.
It was based on these two highs here.
That's all it was.
Why did I pick this high?
Yes.
He got my question.
Finally, I've been sitting here the whole time you're talking.
Why did you pick that high?
What's the first thing I told you?
The algorithm is going to go based on time.
I don't care what Mickey Mouse pattern, what Mickey Mouse logic, some romper room theory that just got pulled out of some eyes backside because they want to sell some attention for clicks and views and mentorships.
Let's hit stems on the basis of time first.
It has to be the right time.
If it's not the right time of day, it is absolutely not going to work.
Period.
End of story.
Put anybody as a mentor.
Anybody as the trader.
I don't give a fuck.
I tried real hard.
I almost got through it.
Almost got through it.
That's why you want in that list.
Whatever they trade, how are they trade?
It does not work.
It will fail.
Stick with it long enough.
You'll see it will fail more kinds than a little.
But why and how is it that every single time I'm sitting down with you, whether it be on Twitter space where I was calling out the candlesticks individually before they happened or in a live stream where I'm giving you the logic and explaining to you why it should do it.
How is that possible?
No ego.
Seriously.
I'm not trying to beat my chest here.
I really want you to see if you're a first time you are here.
Or maybe you come back to your second time watching a live stream because you expected me to do something silly today.
How is it?
How is it that the market does exactly what I'm saying it's going to do?
You ever think about that?
How is it possible that this one single person can get it right so often in front of thousands of people?
When many of them are hoping and praying, please, please God, I can get it right.
I got to go on Twitter and brag about how you messed up today.
I got to make a video exposing ICT.
I need grocery mail money.
You're so fun and manipulative.
All you haters.
But seven o'clock is a very key time.
That starts what?
The morning session.
It matters not that we're trading 4X or futures.
The morning session, A.N. session starts at seven o'clock in the morning.
You can have a model that says I can't be in front of the charts between 8 o'clock and 830.
Maybe you can trade the 930 opening bell for indices because you have to get ready for work.
It just so happens that the time elements in your personal life and geographically look at the world,
that it allows you to look at the market between 7 o'clock and say 7.45.
Worst case scenario, 7.30.
If you're going to work with smaller time frames, you absolutely can use 7 o'clock to 7.30 as a model to do this very exercise.
Same thing.
So your key times are this.
7 o'clock in the morning to 7.30.
In that 30 minute window, you're going to look for relative equal highs and relative equal lows that have happened prior to 7 o'clock.
And you're going to be looking through the time frames of the one minute chart, the 5 minute chart, and the 15 minute time.
Now, Caleb, you're not expected to do anything else beyond that until I change the depth of what your focus should be.
Right now, you're just having 3 charts up.
Since the 15 minute time frame is pretty static, you only need to refer to it once in the morning.
Your second chart could be the 5 minute chart.
You want to do this in the final chart.
But then what you're doing is you're watching between 7 o'clock and 7.30 or 8 o'clock to 8.30 or 9 to 9.30 opening bell.
You're looking for where is the market smooth?
Smooth.
Because still waters in bike rocks.
Think about that.
You remember being kid walking and you see a pond, it's real smooth.
Wow, look at that.
It looks like a mirror.
You can see the sky is reflecting off of it.
So smooth.
What's the first thing you jump to your head?
I need a rock.
For what?
Because you can't accept that.
Our sinful nature says we have to disrupt that.
So you pick up a rock and you want to throw it out there.
What's it going to do?
It's going to cause ripples.
That's exactly why a weak character individual in a relationship will have a beautiful relationship.
A wonderful relationship.
Something smooth.
Ain't no drama.
No reason for ruckus.
And what they got to do?
They got there and you chase some thought.
You go to the bar to pick up some floozy or some silver tongue fox.
It says all the right things for her.
And you invite that disruption.
It's a dysfunctional family environment.
And you have to be the one that says not today, Satan.
Not today.
Not today.
I know your tricks.
I know your snares.
I know how you're going to do it.
Okay.
So what's the market going to do?
Every single session in the morning, you have three opportunities.
And you don't have to trade in the afternoon.
You don't have to trade the London session.
You have three opportunities in the morning to set the stage for a run that will build.
If you don't have any understanding about bias.
Okay.
If you don't know what direction the market is going to move in.
When I go into other people's live streams and I say, note this and that.
And here's the secret.
I just gave to you what I do every single time I go into tons of trades.
When Patrick Whelan had balls and let me into his live streams and chat.
He won't do that man because he's going to pay me $500 this year.
The whole business of anyone else.
I talked to trades by Matt for like a month.
I told him what I was going to do, what I was looking for in private text.
And he can show, I give him permission.
He can show you what I was expecting.
And he watched me do this for almost a month.
And I got two or three of them long.
But most of them were like bang bang bang bang.
And guess what I was doing folks that I just talked to you.
Tom Hugard.
Not as much as I showed with the math.
In certain instances I showed him the survival people.
I like this level.
So it's not like I'm not afraid to share this.
I put what I think's going to happen in the witness of other people.
And they can come out and say, yeah this guy don't know what he's talking about.
And they're not telling me about it.
I'm inviting them to prove the world that I didn't do that.
I like certain people in this industry.
And the ones I like I converse with and I share and I engage with.
And when I go into other people's live streams and I'm helping promote them.
Sometimes I'll go out and I'll point to something.
And I'll say watch this level.
On Twitter, watch this level.
I was doing this and my private mentorship never learned this.
I never sat down with him.
Never told him that.
This is a secret lesson.
It's a bazooka when a BB gun is necessary.
When all you need is a match.
This is a flame flow.
It's the thing that makes every playing field even.
They cannot hide it from you.
They cannot hide it from you.
You're never going to be able to see it.
It's always there.
In plain terms, it's this.
If you can contrast one side of the marketplace.
Against another.
Let me do this.
In this little area down here.
A small little open section.
I'm going to say if I'm going to close it because I have someone to be.
That's not like the 9th of 20 minutes.
I hope you have.
If you take this moment right now.
If you learn something today.
If you didn't learn something, you're a friggin liar.
If you honestly was with me this entire session.
You watched me outline this.
I told you why it was going to go here.
What levels were key.
What to focus on.
You watched it, and you understood.
You understand now.
If you don't, I'm going to get clear for you.
Give that a thumbs up.
I take that as I appreciate you spending time with us on CQ.
I don't need to be doing this.
I can do this privately with Caleb.
I can tell Caleb, I understand that you want to make a YouTube channel.
I understand that that could make you a little bit of scratching money.
I understand that.
But no, I don't want these people to know this.
I could do that.
And I don't feel bad telling you that openly.
Because I've done a lot of that stuff that I don't want to share certain things.
Because it's too good.
Because 20 year old kids go out there and pretend they didn't learn it from me.
And they found it on their own.
And they relabel it so they can make a name for themselves.
And then eventually people find out about them and then they expose them as,
you're nothing more than just an ICT ripple.
And you can spare yourself all that stuff just by being honest and say,
you know what, thank you ICT for sharing this.
I'm going to make it mine.
And this is how I use it.
I got no problem.
I got students out there who are doing mentorship now.
Okay.
It's their business.
It's not mine.
They're not hiding where they want it from.
And that's all I've asked for.
Hey, just remember to fed you.
That's it.
I'm not doing paid mentorship.
I could be out here teaching this kind of stuff and more for millions of dollars a month
all over again.
Because I don't want it.
I don't want it.
And if it wasn't for my son happening saying,
Hey dad, give me a chance to do this.
I want to learn it.
I wouldn't be doing this.
Have you been seeing any videos?
No.
I'm not worried about it.
But since he wants to, I'm going to pour myself into it.
I'm going to pour everything I had into this.
And I'm not fully back to myself.
I'm not feeling well.
I've been experiencing vertigo.
I've had high blood pressure.
I've had chest pains.
I went rush to the hospital.
I got had a lot of stuff going on.
And I'm not stressed about nothing.
It's just my body's going through something.
I don't know what it is.
And I don't not know how to trade.
I know exactly how to trade.
I know exactly what these marks going to do.
Any given day, even on sloppy seeking destroy days.
In fact, I'm going to wait until we have one.
And I'm going to show you me executing in one of them.
I am not fearful of any of these market profiles.
I'm not fearful of my stuff falling out of style because there is no style.
This is the market.
This is the source code.
But when you set up a framework of whatever you're going to study in the morning,
if you're going to trade the morning session, your key times, you have to absolutely be in from the charts.
Between seven o'clock and seven thirty more always in New York local time.
Okay.
If you can be in front of the charts by seven o'clock, this is what you're doing.
But if you can't, you do the same thing at eight o'clock to eight thirty.
The same thing at nine to nine thirty.
Okay.
This is your pre-market range.
Write that down because if you don't write it down, you're going to forget.
You're going to call up the opening range.
It's not the opening range.
The opening range is the first thirty minutes after the opening bell.
At the New York session, the first thirty minutes after seven o'clock to seven thirty.
That is your pre-market range.
Seven thirty to eight o'clock is your open range.
Oh, and then they're all starting to trade every single hour we handle.
Now you're starting to think, you're just turning an arpegg.
Oh, it's fun, isn't it?
And obviously the nine to nine thirty, that's your pre-market range and then post nine thirty to ten o'clock.
That's your opening range.
There is no fifteen minute opening range.
I don't care what anybody tells you.
It's a thirty minute opening range.
That's algorithmic.
Okay.
So what you're doing, and it's this little range here that's being shown here with this rectangle,
what I'm saying is, is this is essentially that thirty minute interval, whether it be seven o'clock to seven thirty,
or eight o'clock to eight thirty, or nine to nine thirty, that pre-market range.
In that range, what you're doing is, you're looking at this line or beginning of that sheet of area with delineate the seven o'clock
or the eight o'clock or the nine o'clock, where it begins at that specific top of the hour.
And then this would be the range that makes up that first thirty minutes.
Now it's not obviously the scale, but I'm oversimplifying for the purpose of teaching what I'm saying.
Prior to that range, anything before or to the left of this, you're looking for equal highs or equal lows.
Which side has it?
Because that's your bias.
It's going to draw up to that.
How do you know if you have both?
Because I heard you're thinking, but what happens if you have a relative equal high here and a relative equal low here?
Which one is going to go for it?
You wait for the first one to get disrupted.
Because once that happens, then you work to the other one.
That's your bias.
So you have to defer and wait.
Now gamblers or live streamers that just want to have people watching and doing anything.
And not really executing on streams, but after the trade starts moving in a favor, then I'll show you how to portray here.
What good is that?
What good is that?
That just proves you're not confident in what you're doing.
And you're going to show it after smoothing your favor.
Talk about it, explain it, and then do it.
I'm going to do that.
But today I gave you a clinic on how to determine bias,
how it's easy for me, and it's easy for you.
Whichever one has the relative equal highs or the other equal lows, that's a smooth area.
It will be disrupted.
Anywhere where you see jagged edges like this down here, and see how it went jagged and ripped higher.
What's it telling you?
What's it telling you?
I'm going to look for bias either could it be, bias stops.
This has been a trap.
They engage traders go short, they're trap short on a breakout.
Or they're not trying to take the shorts out of the market yet.
And that's why you see all this and they're creeping up.
This is all balanced.
That's why this spike stop right at the top of the breaker here.
Isn't that interesting?
Isn't that interesting?
I've been talking nonstop.
No chance for me to have another ad over voice over.
It's all live.
You've lost me.
Do it live.
And now here's the wonderful thing.
You have the privilege to go back to your charts and back testers and your jaw is going to draw.
You're going to be thinking it's always been there.
But I've been looking for this stupid ass harmonic pattern.
I've been waiting for my yin and yang to appear on my chart.
I've been waiting for my moving averages crossing over.
But my luxe aldo indicator said this and then said that.
And I got tripped up.
I thought it was going to do it.
No bullshit.
So bullshit.
There's nothing complicated about what I said in any of the mentorship to use.
They're just very deep dry lessons that give you the why.
Because I'm a person that's highly technical.
I want to know why it's going to do it.
Don't tell me something and then do it ten times and be right ten times.
And that's not going to convince me of anything.
I need to know why it's doing it.
And if you don't think critically about that, you're gambling.
You absolutely are gambling.
I need to understand before I put money behind it.
I need to know why is this market going to do this then at that time.
Why should it behave that way?
And folks, you can't get any planer or simpler than simply saying, okay, where it's smooth.
Now you're going to say, well, this isn't new, I see, you talk about relative people high
as well as before.
Right.
And I taught that you should be aiming for them.
But you haven't been trading like that.
You've been doing other stuff.
And then cussing me behind my back saying, this stuff doesn't work.
This guy's a fraud.
We don't see his name on a leaderboard.
He's a fraud.
I'm out here in front of your wife telling you what's going to happen.
You think I can't do that?
No, I'm just cussing.
You think I can't do that?
Come on.
You guys are gullible, man.
You're so easy.
You're so easy.
I love it.
Absolutely right.
But anyway, the market trades down to the bullish breaker that I absolutely identified before
it hits it and then goes to the relative people high that I told you to focus on.
And then I gave you this one here and I told you this imbalance is prior to these relative
people high being taken.
But this was where we were focused on and look for the trading.
Now, in closing, in this price run, and we're not going to use all of this.
This is capitulation.
Let's get you excited.
If we have this segment of price action, if I'm identifying this area up here, more specific,
it's going to be honest because this is the one I drew your attention to first, so we'll
stick with that even though that's not the one with the majoring.
The only thing you need to do is to get the video thumbs up.
So, anyway, did you take a second of your time to press that up thumb icon on YouTube?
That's free.
I didn't charge anything for it.
That really is a way for you to communicate to you.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
You have to be able to do that.
This one here can be used even though it's a little bit above equal living room.
We didn't take this high.
We didn't take out these two relative people who were treated down to the breaker.
takes off and runs to where we are waiting to see it delivered. The smooth
areas are going to be attacked. The sharks are going to go to the still water.
That's where they're going to go. Why? Because as soon as someone in there starts
shaking in fear that their stops going to be taken, that still water will ripple
and that triggers a frenzy and the sharks are going to go right there. You
don't trade into levels where the sharks have already had a frenzy and
that's down here. They've already done the work. There's been an attack down here.
How do you know? There's been the great disturbance in what price was
doing and the hell is delivered. It's jagged like shark teeth cutting through
the side of a whale's body. It's been damaged delivered. You can see it. It's
physically represented in the jaggedness of the swings going down where we
don't see that jaggedness up here. It's nice to see you. Real inviting. It's safe
but your stop lots of talking like a siren calling out for the sailors. Come
to me. Come to me and crash them on the rocks.
But you have to go through all of this price action here and determine what
price level makes sense to you. Which one resonates with you? Do you see the
fair value gaps where I was outlining before I did it? Did it make sense when
I was drawing them out? Did you change your expectation and get fearful that
I'm wrong and it's not going to go up there because it's just dropping. What's
occurring here? The only thing it's doing is at 9.30 during the opening range it's
doing what? It's creating Judas swim. Something that's opposite to the real move.
The real move was given to you. But these highs it's going to go there. At any time
did you hear me sound nervous in front of all of you? I don't know how many people
were watching me. I think it was like 6,000 earlier. But it's not going to check the
streams. But I haven't seen I don't know what the highest high is.
Did that sound like I was nervous? I've been really really trying not to say any
embellishments on the first words. But sometimes it's just it has to find its way out.
I'm human. I'm a sinner. I always regret when it slips out. But that's I'm real.
Like I'm a real person and I have character flaws like anybody else. But I
try very very hard to not to use that type of language. But depending on what subject
matter I refer to it will draw it out. But anyway we can see how that CIVI
becomes an inversion for the I gap here. And then it sends price higher.
And then it reaches down and then you have your second leg redistribution. And it sends it to the smooth area that meets up with this market at the bottom.
I know it's I see. Yeah that's how it is. So when you're looking for the bias.
Okay the easiest most scientific proven 9 out of 10 doctors approved ICP has
nailed it down to a science of wherever the smooth equal highs are or smooth
relative equal lows are at the beginning of seven o'clock to seven thirty or eight o'clock to eight thirty or nine to nine thirty.
You have three opportunities three chances. Okay. As each one of these time
when those passes by. So at seven o'clock we form the relative equal highs.
And then at eight to eight thirty we didn't go up there yet. So that means that what nine to nine thirty
chances are that's the run. See how that does that. It increases the likelihood of it going there.
It doesn't diminish it because it's building up more trust in that area right there.
So the framework begins at seven o'clock in the morning. Start looking for relative equal highs to four.
Not before. He he take away is not before seven o'clock at seven o'clock. Look for them before.
Big big big big takeaway there. Okay. If you're looking for relative equal highs prior to seven o'clock in the morning.
You may you may get it but many times you're expecting the lemon session to be completely over rigged.
And it's it's most times not the case. So it kind of like building this filter where you're not trying to
demand that the run on London is women or dismissed because of the price of a like overlapping it
and going back over top of it because the general consensus is we could see the higher load they
form in the so if it's bearish or bullish relative to a higher time frame draw which is not necessary.
Notice that haven't we used that here yet. Only thing I use was a 15 minute time frame
a five minute time frame and a one minute time frame and I was framing on the basis of time
because I understand my own and I understand what it's going to do. I understand exactly what these
markets are going to do. Every single day every single day it will not stop. It will not be hidden
from you but it can be disrupted by manual intervention and that will always cause me to lose. It will
always cause me to be incorrect because that's something that we and no one can predict. It's
their casino if they want to come in and disrupt everything it is what it is and that's the inherent
risk that every one of us has to assume while trading. So that's that should be the number one
reason why you should never over leverage because that is always looming and we're in a condition
in the marketplace right now in geopolitical tension and turmoil that is expected to unfold
at any given time. Any moment folks things could pop off and your little indicator or your little
market structure idea whether it be mine or somebody else's stuff means nothing when that happens.
It literally is Ken and Potter it's gone. It's dusting and if you happen to be over leveraged
when it happens you're going to eat it and sorry but it's not going to be pleasurable. It's going
to be a hard swallow and probably end you and take you out of the game entirely and all of that is
avoidable if you don't over leverage. If you trade with one contract and you try to capture moves
like this I promise you're going to feed the socks off of every one of the live streamers out there
and my students included. All of them that are doing well now they're going to start applying
this and watch and see how well they start increasing and the people that don't like me
their trades are going to start working and go back and look at what's on top you hear they're
going to you're going to see that they're using this too. It's a secret weapon I didn't want to
give it to anybody. I did not want to give it away to anyone. It's a it's a home field advantage
one of many that I have but because I want my son to know what he's doing that's real simple.
It's it's not complicated. It's one or the other and if there's two extremes above and below the range
that's relative equal high and relative equal low then you just wait for one of them to be disrupted
and just sometimes you'll miss a move. Sometimes it'll do it and then you won't get a trade. Who cares?
Who cares? When you back test this you're going to see like
what am I worried about man like this is so many times offered to me every single week right
that's the mindset you need to come away with not I got to trade every single day when it's so obvious
when it's so obvious that's the ones you want to trade on because retail is going to have
every hope and prayer hanging on those relative equal highs thinking it's resistance and they're
going to beat them and then it's a vow of them and grind their bones the powder
and you can have a moral dilemma and have some convictions about that thing or I can't do that
for somebody else I can't because they sign the same risk disclosure that I do when I open up a
panel and if they make the wrong move don't interrupt them that's how you eat that's how you eat you
and if you have a problem with that then trading is not for you and there's nothing wrong with that
either but hopefully you see that when we're doing this we're not trying to be smart we're
not trying to be more popular than somebody else we're not trying to get more attention
and more viewership or more followers we're in here to try to make money so that way you can make
your ends meet that's it and some of you will supercharge that and become pillars in the community
and and and tighties and be so much bigger than I am and I'm here to see it I want to see it
I want to cheer you on I'd love it for one of my sons to be that person I've been trying to
cultivate that since they were little but they're their individual personalities and you know it is
you don't want to listen to your parents and even if your dad can do it and prove it over and over
no over again sometimes still isn't enough as a motivation you do because you have to want to
do it and guess what makes that happen when you make them work new your jobs and they hate it
and what's the alternative college that's not the question
so do what works do what works and can be proven I could do this in front of the Supreme Court
right just like I did today I ain't afraid of it I'm not afraid of this and when you get that
confidence it's not arrogance but when somebody doesn't know how to do something and they feel
miserably when they hear somebody talk like that and when they see somebody display it it's so
uncomfortable it's unbearable for them so now you are a narcissistic jerk you're arrogant you're
conceited okay is that going to make me lose money on the next trade no is that going to make
me forget that the logic that is being employed here no I'm not here for friends I'm not here for
friends neither should you be I'm warming up to these candlesticks when it's appropriate but when
the date is over I'm going home alone they're not spending a night with me that's all it is
it's a momentary engagement and I'm leaving before any kids are made
simple as that I'm staying protected I'm wrapping up I got stop loss I know when I hit the breaks
and go out the other direction if it's a grenade I'm getting out of there before it does any damage
and that's me thinking like a man for the ladies you come up with your own analogy I'm not that good
with the ladies side but hopefully you've learned something today I'm going to close this one I
will invite you all tomorrow to come back if you found this insightful it'll be a little bit more
technical tomorrow today was more or less the mindset how to relax when you're watching the
charts and what to look for so that way you're not holding so much expectation of yourself and
you can enjoy enjoy studying it because it's important that you do enjoy it because if it's
if it's daunting and not really seeing any kind of fun
characteristics in it it's going to be very hard to stick with it so I tried to cultivate that today
if I was successful you can obviously show me by giving a thumbs up I promise I don't make any
more money by thumbs up and you don't take any money from me when you put the thumbs down here
it doesn't change anything but it's just a way for you to give me feedback that you found something
in this today that made sense for you that you are inspired to go into your charts and you had fun
while you were learning so this is going to be the end of lecture number one dealing with the
foundations of determining the bias it's very very simple it doesn't it doesn't require a whole
lot of complicated things it's very time specific without the time elements none of it matters and
it's very very rule-based that doesn't require a whole lot of moving parts where it's smooth
it's going where it's jagged it's going to move away from very very simple logic hooks
not complicated at all and so I'll talk to you tomorrow lord willing be safe
